Donald Trump Jr. doesn't seem to know how Halloween works. The whole point of trick-or-treating, of course, is that children get candy ― free ― from friendly neighbors. But in a tweet Tuesday, the eldest son of President Donald Trump indicated that he would take half of his daughter's Halloween haul and give it away to teach her about socialism. He wrote: The tweet quickly backfired, with more than 30,000 comments. Many of them looked a lot like these: Sick to use your kid for political ends. When I was sick on Halloween when I was 6 and had to stay home, my brother gave me half his candy. If her sister was sick, would she share? Lesson # 1: Halloween candy is given FREE to children by people who pay for it with their own money. It's "TOO," not "TO." As in it's never TOO late for Chloe to teach you 2nd-grade English. Decent families call it kindness. Halloween candy are literally handouts you wooden clod Why don't you take a third of it and give it all to people who already have billions of pieces of candy maybe u should teach her how to visit u and grandpa in prison... u deluded spawn of satan #TrumpRussia#JRitsOVER One day, you're going to have to explain to your daughter that you tweeted a picture of her as a mean-spirited joke. Good luck with that. Wait wait wait I just noticed something is she dressed as a cop???🤣🤣🤣🤣 is she there to arrest one of you? The no-strings attached candy that she received from strangers? https://t.co/fHZt6B47lb That's a wonderful idea, teaching her to share with others who weren't able to participate. Too bad that's not what you meant. Yes, it would be HORRIFYING to see your little girl share her free candies with other kids. Let's make sure she's a real Trump. Never too early to teach class, integrity, charity, the joy of giving. Instead you teach her snark and entitlement. "honey, see this free candy you just got? don't share it with anyone. that's how the Trumps operate. we are selfish." She'd probably be okay with it, too, because most kids understand that sharing is a good thing. https://t.co/EF7oIYd1uh   Share this slide: