Devin Patrick Kelley, 26, has been identified as the suspect in Sunday’s shooting at a church in Sutherland Springs, Texas, according to multiple reports. Kelley is a white male from outside of San Antonio, ABC News reported. He is a former member of the U.S. Air Force who served in logistics readiness at Holloman Air Force Base in New Mexico from 2010 until his discharge in 2014, according to USAF spokeswoman Ann Stefanek.  The Air Force said late Sunday that Kelley was court-martialed in 2012 for assault on his spouse and their child. He received a bad conduct discharge, a 12-month sentence in a military prison and a reduction in rank for the offense. That same year he was reportedly sued for divorce in New Mexico, The New York Times reported.  He lived in a “barndominium” next to his parents’ home for at least a decade, neighbors Mark and Terry Moravitz told KSAT 12. “Nothing abnormal. Regular guy,” Mark Moravitz said of Kelley. “I mean, the only thing unusual across the street is we hear a lot of gunfire, a lot of times at night. We hear gunfire a lot, but we’re out in the country. ” The shooting at First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs, which is east of San Antonio, occurred at 11:30 a.m. local time. The incident claimed 26 lives and wounded 20 others, Wilson County authorities said.  After fleeing the shooting scene, the suspect was found dead by a gunshot wound in his vehicle in neighboring Guadalupe County, Wilson County authorities said. “The exact circumstances of the gunman’s death are still under investigation,” a statement from the Wilson County Sheriff’s Office and the Texas Department of Public Safety said.  Prior to the shooting, the suspect was seen at a gas station dressed in all black before crossing the street to the church and opening fire on the congregation with a “Ruger AR assault-type rifle,” Texas Department of Public Safety regional director Freeman Martin said at a subsequent press conference on Sunday.  “This investigation is ongoing and information surrounding this tragedy is still being gathered and confirmed by law enforcement officials,” the sheriff’s office and Texas DPS said. 