Analysis MultiChoice is the latest company staring down the long barrel of a loaded Gupta gun that's aimed directly at the conglomerate's brand. That same metaphorical gun, packed with allegations of dodgy business links to the controversial family and its associates, has already critically injured firms like McKinsey, KPMG, Bell Pottinger and SAP. Those companies reacted similarly when allegations of underhanded business links to the Guptas first emerged: denial; an internal investigation; an accountability-lacking report; the axe falling on some employees' heads and lastly, an unconditional apology. Then, embarrassed silence. Here's what not to do when you're in the Gupta spotlight. Last week, News24 reported that Naspers-owned MultiChoice allegedly made a once-off payment of R25 million to ANN7 -- which the Guptas sold in August to Mzwanele Manyi -- and increased its annual payment to the broadcaster from R50 million to R141 million. Marketing and brand specialist Chris Moerdyk said MultiChoice would be foolish to follow the same path in dealing with allegations levelled against them; and should rather opt for total transparency from the outset. READ: MultiChoice 'Could Join The Ranks Of KPMG And Bell Pottinger' Over Gupta Deal. "What any company should do is not be immediately defensive... A company needs to understand that it is not so much about what they need to say, but what the public needs to hear. They must delve into absolute detail in their responses and go through a lot of trouble to clarify things completely," Moerdyk said. He said MultiChoice was in a difficult position because of public pressure to drop ANN7 from its offering. "Other companies have made mistakes by first going into a state of denial and hoping the allegations will go away until evidence is so overwhelming that they have to admit to their mistakes... But the tragedy is that is takes an awful lot to permanently damage a brand," Moerdyk said. "I don't think this issue will cost MultiChoice very many subscribers." News24 reported that the payments came after the Guptas apparently assisted former communications minister Faith Muthambi in getting President Jacob Zuma to transfer certain broadcasting powers to her -- after which she pushed through a decision in favour of unencrypted set-top boxes, which benefited MultiChoice. MultiChoice has since denied those allegations. In its response to News24, MultiChoice said it was standard practice to pay for mainstream news channels. "While we understand that some people may not be aware of it, it is standard practice to pay for mainstream news channels -- particularly for local, 24-hour news channels. The fee structure for the ANN7 contract is in line with the costs of developing and running such a channel, and ANN7 is definitely not the highest-paid local news channel on the DStv platform", it said. MultiChoice said the once-off R25 million fee mentioned in the article was "also not unusual". MultiChoice is a Naspers-owned company, as is HuffPost SA.