Netflix has reportedly cut ties with Kevin Spacey on its hit original series “House of Cards.”  BuzzFeed’s Adam B. Vary, the reporter who broke the story of Anthony Rapp’s sexual harassment allegations against the actor, tweeted a statement from the company on Friday night. The decision follows rumors reported by Variety earlier in the day that the show was considering killing Spacey’s pivotal character, Frank Underwood. “Netflix will not be involved with any further production of ‘House of Cards’ that includes Kevin Spacey,” Netflix’s statement reads. “We will continue to work with MRC [Media Rights Capital studio] during this hiatus time to evaluate our path forward as it relates to the show.”  Netflix also said that they would not be releasing “Gore,” a film produced by and starring Spacey. The actor has also been dropped by his talent agency and publicist.  Breaking: Netflix says it won't be a part of #HouseOfCards if "includes Kevin Spacey," & has dropped the Gore Vidal biopic starring Spacey. pic.twitter.com/ujvmh6hXeI A number of men have come forward with their own stories since Rapp’s initial accusation of sexual misconduct against Spacey, who was 26 at the time, when he was 14 years old. Several “House of Cards” employees have accused the star of harassment over the course of the show’s production, One former production assistant told CNN that Spacey assaulted him by sticking his hand in the staffer’s pants during a drive to the set. The staffer reported the incident to his supervisor, who didn’t allow Spacey to be alone with the assistant.  “I have no doubt that this type of predatory behavior was routine for him and that my experience was one of many and that Kevin had few if any qualms about exploiting his status and position,” the assistant told CNN. “It was a toxic environment for young men who had to interact with him at all in the crew, cast, background actors.” Spacey is reportedly being investigated by authorities in London in relation to a 2008 assault case when the actor was at the Old Vic theater. The “House of Cards” actor is seeking “evaluation and treatment” in response to the landslide of accusations against him, his representative said Thursday.  Netflix did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment. The streaming company did not clarify whether it would be halting production on the sixth season of “House of Cards” or if it would find a way to get rid of Spacey’s character.  This article has been updated to include background on accusations against Spacey on the “House of Cards” set and an investigation in London.