Bachelor Nation is devastated as updates concerning the incident that halted production on Season 4 of "Bachelor in Paradise" roll in. ABC and Warner Bros. suspended filming and sent home all cast members on Sunday after "allegations of misconduct," reportedly between contestants Corinne Olympios and DeMario Jackson, emerged, according to The Hollywood Reporter. Warner Bros. said that they would be conducting an investigation into the situation and "will take appropriate responsive action" once it's complete. But the cast and crew are already speaking out about what actually went down in Mexico. According to TMZ, a field producer reportedly filed a complaint claiming Olympios was too drunk to consent to Jackson's actions, which were allegedly sexual in nature, in a swimming pool. Sources close to Olympios told the site that she claims she did not agree to sexual contact and was "in a blackout state" when the incident occurred. Jackson, however, reportedly claims the hook-up was consensual. Allegedly, fellow cast members told an unaware Olympios what happened in the days following the situation, explaining that crew members did not listen to them when they voiced concern. Production sources, however, tell TMZ otherwise. Choosing to remain anonymous, one contestant told People that the cast is "pissed" and "angry" with crew members who allowed the inappropriate sexual encounter to happen. "People are pissed, and not just at DeMario," the contestant said, adding that two other cast members saw the interaction between Jackson and Olympios. "We're pissed that this whole thing happened. They could have seen that she was drinking too much and that he was taking advantage. They could have stopped this before it got this far. But they decided to let it go, and let it happen, and see what happened? So, I'm angry at the show, and everyone else is too." Although the unfortunate situation has caused Warner Bros. to suspend filming on the show, Entertainment Weekly reports that "Bachelor in Paradise" is not necessarily in jeopardy. The investigation will need to be concluded "before any next steps," ABC Entertainment Group President Channing Dungey told Entertainment Weekly. "The show absolutely values the primacy of consent, and this instance it appears as though conduct allegedly occurred without the proper consent having been given," a source within the show told People. "Bachelor in Paradise," which brings together former contestants of "The Bachelor" and "The Bachelorette" for another shot at love on the beaches of Mexico, was set to debut Aug. 8. This is the first time in its 15-year history that production has been halted on a show in the "Bachelor" franchise, aside from circumstances involving weather or location changes. Some of the cast members have taken to social media to share their thoughts on the matter, but did not respond to HuffPost when asked for comments. HuffPost has also reached out to ABC, Olympios and Jackson for updates and statements. What happens in paradise, stays in paradise. #NoComment#BIP4 I'm heartbroken about BIP. 💔 Share this slide: