Bill Cosby stands accused by 60 women of sexual misconduct in alleged incidents that span decades. On Saturday morning, he might have been convicted for one: the case of Andrea Constand, a former Temple University employee who accuses the embattled comedian of molesting her after giving her drugs at his home in 2004. The charges against Cosby, three felony counts, carried a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison. But after 12 jurors became deadlocked in their deliberations, a Pennsylvania judge declared the case a mistrial. Prosecutors reportedly intend to seek retrial of the case, but the result is a blow to Cosby's many accusers and women like them who too often face uphill battles in their fight for justice after reporting sex crimes. Soon after, Lena Dunham, Judd Apatow, Ru Paul and others spoke out on social media, seemingly united in their criticisms of the outcome. My heart is with every survivor reliving the erasure of their own experience today. I see you. I love you. If Cosby's defense is true he is admitting to cheating hundreds of times on his wife with the use of quaaludes. That's what he admits. https://t.co/gFthKCfOKa Try him again. #CosbyTrial. Heart goes out to women who came forward. Without that courage there will be more victims. Serial rapist. Fuck Bill Cosby but damn Camille can also go in the dumpster. At the very least her husband cheated indiscreetly countless times. Serious question: How will Cosby ever get an unbiased jury? Who doesn't know him or have some sort of association with him? This Bill Cosby shit is so gross. An example of how celebrity overrides morality/conviction & more importantly, truth. Sad day 4 justice. To all the women who say Bill Cosby drugged, raped or assaulted you:

I BELIEVE YOU. A mistrial for Cosby.
An injustice for all women. Celebrity attorney Lisa Bloom also offered her encouragement for sexual assault survivors: To everyone who criticizes women for taking confidential settlements: this is why. Justice system often fails women. #RapeCulture To sexual assault survivors today after #BillCosby mistrial: win or lose, the fight is what matters. Rise up. Speak out. Defeat #RapeCulture Share this slide: