Accio feminism. J.K. Rowling doesn't have time for liberal men who hurl misogynistic insults at women — except to put them in their place. On Thursday, British Prime Minister Theresa May called a snap election that was thought to be an easy victory for her. It wasn't. May's Conservative Party lost seats to Jeremy Corbyn's Labour Party, prompting Corbyn to tell May to resign. She didn't. The election results left Britain with a so-called hung Parliament. The minority government then struck a deal with the smaller Democratic Union Party in order to maintain leadership. Not everyone was pleased with this outcome. According to Rowling, a liberal man she follows, and has always liked, called May a "whore" on Twitter. So the British author promptly unfollowed the man and tweeted her explanation for doing so: Just unfollowed a man whom I thought was smart and funny, because he called Theresa May a whore. 1/14 If you can't disagree with a woman without reaching for all those filthy old insults, screw you and your politics. 2/14 I'm sick of 'liberal' men whose mask slips every time a woman displeases them, who reach immediately for crude and humiliating words 3/14 associated with femaleness, act like old-school misogynists and then preen themselves as though they've been brave. 4/14 When you do this, Mr Liberal Cool Guy, you ally yourself, wittingly or not, with the men who send women violent pornographic images 5/14 and rape threats, who try by every means possible to intimidate women out of politics and public spaces, both real and digital. 6/14 'Cunt', 'whore' and, naturally, rape. We're too ugly to rape, or we need raping, or we need raping and killing. 7/14 Every woman I know who has dared express an opinion publically has endured this kind of abuse at least once, 8/14 rooted in an apparent determination to humiliate or intimidate her on the basis that she is female. 9/14 If you want to know how much fouler it gets if you also happen to be black or gay, ask Diane Abbot or Ruth Davidson. 10/14 I don't care whether we're talking about Theresa May or Nicola Sturgeon or Kate Hooey or Yvette Cooper or Hillary Clinton: 11/14 femaleness is not a design flaw. If your immediate response to a woman who displeases you 12/14 is to call her a synonym for her vulva, or compare her to a prostitute, then drop the pretence and own it: you're not a liberal. 13/14 You're a few short steps away from some guy hiding behind a cartoon frog. 14/14 Though Rowling's response is powerful, it isn't 100 percent perfect. While "whore" can be used as a slur, some people have taken issue with Rowling's claim that "comparing a woman with a prostitute" is inherently offensive. Let us not continue using "prostitute" as a pejorative when responding to misogyny. "Compare to a prostitute" still frames SWers < women. https://t.co/3d5Ztu96DI There is nothing more offensive than a woman of privilege who considers prostitutes as sub human. "compare her to a prostitue"? That's not an insult. Most SEX WORKERS I know have far more integrity than Theresa May. Perhaps Rowling, like the man she unfollowed, can take these criticisms and grow from them. Share this slide: