Amanda Bynes has given her first interview in four years after taking a break from the spotlight to focus on her health. Stating that she is three years sober, Bynes addressed some of her past erratic behavior, explaining what she was thinking the time she tweeted, "I want [Drake] to murder my vagina." "I actually wasn't being insincere," Bynes told gossip site Hollyscoop's Diana Madison in a clumsy and at times tasteless seven-minute interview previewed on "Good Morning America." "I was serious, but I was also on drugs. That was my way of saying, like, 'Let's do it, man,' but I was on drugs and trying to be hilarious." After her hiatus from acting, the former Nickelodeon star revealed that she would like to return to the industry ― maybe going back to her roots in television. "I do miss acting," she said. "I actually have something surprising to tell you: I'm going to start acting again." "I want to do TV. Maybe a few guest spots on some shows that I'm a fan of, and maybe another TV show where I'm the star of it," she added. Bynes previously faced public concern over her health as she ran into legal trouble, including two arrests for DUI, two hit-and-run charges and a suspended drivers' license within a span of three years. Her lawyer, Tamar Arminak, addressed the actress' mental health in 2014 only to state that Bynes does not have schizophrenia, and wished to keep her actual diagnosis private. Asked how she's doing, Bynes responded definitively: "I'm doing great, thank you." Bynes' lawyer told ABC News that she has complied with all the conditions of her probation. Since dipping out of the public eye around 2013, Bynes has been attending the Fashion Institute of Design & Merchandising in Los Angeles, a move the formerly prolific Twitter user revealed to fans through a series of tweets in August. "I am really loving school and I feel that I am learning a lot," she wrote at the time, adding, "I've been in school learning about the fashion business so I don't have time to tweet." Bynes aims to design her own fashion line, she told the Hollyscoop host, who later challenged her guest to rate a series of her own past red carpet outfits. Other than pursuing her interest in fashion, Bynes says she's been spending her time exercising and doing charity work. "I hike, I go spinning, take spinning classes and I feed the homeless, and that's been really interesting and fun," she said. Bynes, who starred in Nickelodeon's "All That" and "The Amanda Show," earned her last acting credit in 2010, appearing alongside Emma Stone in "Easy A." Share this slide: