The 2017 Tony Awards have finally arrived. One year after “Hamilton: An American Musical” vied for a record 16 statues at the annual ceremony, the Broadway scene looks a little different. Without a clear Tonys frontrunner, a number of critically-acclaimed musicals and plays competed for recognition, including favorites like the Ben Platt–led musical “Dear Evan Hansen” and the Pulitzer-winning play “Sweat.” (The former prevailed, while the latter lost to “Oslo.”) Hosted by your favorite “House of Cards” villain Kevin Spacey, the 71st edition of the awards show featured an impressive roster of celebrities: Mark Hamill introduced the night’s “In Memoriam” segment that paid tribute to his former co-star, Carrie Fisher. Another “Star Wars” alum, 86-year-old James Earl Jones, was honored with a Tony for lifetime achievement. Bette Midler won her first competitive Tony award for her performance in “Hello, Dolly!” (She unfortunately did not perform; co-star David Hyde Pierce took her place.) Other stars who made appearances included Stephen Colbert, Lin-Manuel Miranda, Tina Fey, Keegan-Michael Key and more. And Broadway fans outside of New York City caught performances from several musicals beyond “Dear Evan Hansen,” like “Come From Away,” “Groundhog Day,” “Natasha, Pierre & The Great Comet of 1812,” “Falsettos” and “Miss Saigon.” Taking place a year after the devastating shooting at Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida, the 2017 ceremony was a joyous occasion filled with emotional speeches. Check out every win of the night below, so you can continue the Tony toasting long after the broadcast on CBS. To analyze the upsets and snubs, check out a full list of the nominations here. Winners are underlined. Best Play: “Sweat””Indecent””A Doll’s House, Part 2””Oslo” Best Musical: “Dear Evan Hansen” “Natasha, Pierre & The Great Comet of 1812”“Come From Away” “Groundhog Day” Best Revival of a Play: “Jitney” “Six Degrees of Separation”“The Little Foxes” “Present Laughter” Best Revival of a Musical: “Hello, Dolly!” “Falsettos” “Miss Saigon” Best Actor in a Play: Denis Arndt, “Heisenberg”  Chris Cooper, “A Doll’s House Part 2”Cory Hawkins, “Six Degrees of Separation”Kevin Kline, “Present Laughter”Jefferson Mays, “Oslo” Best Actress in a Play: Cate Blanchett, “The Present” Jennifer Ehle, “Oslo”Sally Field, “The Glass Menagerie”  Laura Linney, “The Little Foxes”Laurie Metcalf, “A Doll’s House Part 2” Best Actor in a Musical: Christian Borle, “Falsettos”  Josh Groban, “Natasha, Pierre & The Great Comet of 1812”David Hyde Pierce, “Hello, Dolly!”Andy Karl, “Groundhog Day” Ben Platt, “Dear Evan Hansen” Best Actress in a Musical: Christine Ebersole, “War Paint”Denee Benton, “Natasha, Pierre & The Great Comet of 1812” Patti LuPone, “War Paint” Bette Midler, “Hello, Dolly!”Eva Noblezada, “Miss Saigon” Best Direction of a Play: Sam Gold, “A Doll’s House, Part 2”Ruben Santiago-Hudson, “Jitney”Bartlett Sher, “Oslo”Daniel Sullivan, “Lillian Hellman’s The Little Foxes”Rebecca Taichman, “Indecent” Best Direction of a Musical: Christopher Ashley, “Come From Away”Rachel Chavkin, “Natasha, Pierre & The Great Comet of 1812”Michael Greif, “Dear Evan Hansen”Matthew Warchus, “Groundhog Day”Jerry Zaks, “Hello, Dolly!” Best Book of a Musical: “Come From Away,” Irene Sankoff and David Hein“Dear Evan Hansen,” Steven Levenson”Groundhog Day,” Danny Rubin”Natasha, Pierre & The Great Comet of 1812,” Dave Malloy Best Original Score: “Come From Away,” Irene Sankoff and David Hein”Dear Evan Hansen,” Benj Pasek & Justin Paul”Groundhog Day,” Tim Minchin”Natasha, Pierre & The Great Comet of 1812,” Dave Malloy Best Featured Actor in a Play: Michael Aronov, “Oslo”Danny DeVito, “The Price”Nathan Lane, “The Front Page”Richard Thomas, “The Little Foxes”John Douglas Thompson, “Jitney” Best Featured Actress in a Play: Johanna Day, “Sweat”Jayne Houdyshell, “A Doll’s House, Part 2”Cynthia Nixon, “The Little Foxes”Condola Rashad, “A Doll’s House, Part 2”Michelle Wilson, “Sweat” Best Featured Actor in a Musical: Gavin Creel, “Hello, Dolly!”Mike Faist, “Dear Evan Hansen”Andrew Rannells, “Falsettos”Lucas Steele, “Natasha, Pierre & The Great Comet of 1812”Brandon Uranowitz, “Falsettos” Best Featured Actress in a Musical: Kate Baldwin, “Hello, Dolly!”Stephanie J. Block, “Falsettos”Jenn Colella, “Come From Away”Rachel Bay Jones, “Dear Evan Hansen”Mary Beth Peil, “Anastasia” Best Scenic Design of a Play: David Gallo, “Jitney”Nigel Hook, “The Play That Goes Wrong”Douglas W. Schmidt, “The Front Page”Michael Yeargan, “Oslo” Best Scenic Design of a Musical: Rob Howell, “Groundhog Day”David Korins, “War Paint”Mimi Lien, “Natasha, Pierre & The Great Comet of 1812”Santo Loquasto, “Hello, Dolly!” Best Costume Design of a Play: Jane Greenwood, “The Little Foxes”Susan Hilferty, “Present Laughter”Toni-Leslie James, “Jitney”David Zinn, “A Doll’s House, Part 2” Best Costume Design of a Musical: Linda Cho, “Anastasia”Santo Loquasto, “Hello, Dolly!”Paloma Young, “Natasha, Pierre & The Great Comet of 1812”Catherine Zuber, “War Paint” Best Choreography: Andy Blankenbuehler, “Bandstand”Peter Darling and Ellen Kane, “Groundhog Day”Kelly Devine, “Come From Away”Denis Jones, “Holiday Inn, The New Irving Berlin Musical”Sam Pinkleton, “Natasha, Pierre & The Great Comet of 1812” Best Lighting Design of a Play: Christopher Akerlind, “Indecent”Jane Cox, “Jitney”Donald Holder, “Oslo”Jennifer Tipton, “A Doll’s House, Part 2” Best Lighting Design of a Musical: Howell Binkley, “Come From Away”Natasha Katz, “Hello, Dolly!”Bradley King, “Natasha, Pierre & The Great Comet of 1812”Japhy Weideman, “Dear Evan Hansen” Best Orchestrations: Bill Elliott and Greg Anthony Rassen, “Bandstand”Larry Hochman, “Hello, Dolly!”Alex Lacamoire, “Dear Evan Hansen”Dave Malloy, “Natasha, Pierre & The Great Comet of 1812” Special Tony Award for lifetime achievement in the theater: James Earl Jones Special Tony Award: Gareth Fry and Pete Malkin, sound designers for “The Encounter” Regional Theater Tony Award: Dallas Theater Center, Dallas Isabelle Stevenson Tony Award: Baayork Lee Tony Honors for excellence in the theater: Nina Lannan, Alan Wasser Check out last year’s Tony winners here. Share this slide: