Last night, as people fled London Bridge and the surrounding area, one man became an unlikely hero - quite possibly without even realising.Howard Manella tweeted a photo of people running from the attackers. One of the men pictured fleeing the scene was still clutching his beer, trying not to spill it.The unknown man's actions have proven relatable for many Londoners."People fleeing London Bridge but the bloke on the right isn't spilling a drop," tweeted Howard Mannella. "God Bless the Brits!"People fleeing #LondonBridge but the bloke on the right isn't spilling a drop. God Bless the Brits! pic.twitter.com/ceeaH0XxeXWhile some were disappointed that jokes were being made so soon after the attack, others said they were glad to see the British sense of humour shining through in such dark times.People are hating on this bloke but after the scare he's had he'll bloody need that beer!The people hating on this guy are blatantly NOT British. We find this a) funny and b) admirable.Nobody is ignoring the spilt blood but humour gives us the strength to fight for those who were hurt and killed. It's just how we do it here@Albilicueta true British style! This is what makes us greatIt's great to find a reason to laugh despite this horrific event!! Good on us and our British humour &amp; values! Let's get our priorities right! We are British after all.Reacting to hate with humor. Well done Brits. Mourn and remember the victims, but don't change.Others were quick to add their own slice of wit to the mix.It's London bridge ffs he's paid &pound;5.50 for that pintWhen you're fleeing terror, but you don't wanna spill your pint. #LoveLondon#LondonAttacks Pic via @hmannella@taxbodpic.twitter.com/0wHbKF9xeIOne has to maintain standards"Price of these pints and all! Tally ho"Seven people were killed and at least 48 injured in the terror attack which took place at London Bridge and Borough Market.Three male attackers were shot and killed within eight minutes of the first call to emergency services.Police believe they have killed all the attackers involved with the incident.