Protesters rallied in front of the state Capitol in Saint Paul, Minnesota, on Friday after a jury found a police officer not guilty in the July 2016 shooting death of Philando Castile. Jeronimo Yanez, a police officer in the suburb of St. Anthony, shot and killed Castile, who was black, during a traffic stop. Castile’s girlfriend, Diamond Reynolds, was in the car with him and filmed the aftermath of the shooting. Yanez was found not guilty of several charges Friday, including manslaughter. Demonstrators had planned to gather outside the Capitol even before the verdict was made public, according to local news station WCCO. Saint Paul police estimated there were around 2,000 people at the rally as of 9:41 p.m. local time. Thousands of Minnesotans showing up to march after not guilty verdict in #yaneztrial, #philandocastile pic.twitter.com/I3TQA7J5kt Shortly after the verdict was announced, Reynolds said in a statement that she was “incredibly disappointed.” “My boyfriend, Philando Castile, was pulled over because, per officer Yanez, he had a wide nose and looked like a suspect,” Reynolds said, according to KSTP producer Ben Rodgers. “It is a sad state of affairs when this type of criminal conduct is condoned simply because Yanez is a policeman,” she went on. “God help America.” Protesters chanted “No justice, no peace, prosecute the police,” “Hands up, don’t shoot,” and, later, “Yanez, guilty!” as they marched down University Avenue in Saint Paul, according to local reporters. In videos from the rally, the demonstration showed no signs of slowing down as the sun set over the city. "They need an independent office to investigate police shootings." -@nvlevy #PhilandoCastile pic.twitter.com/FC1txXJFdj Photos: Grief, anger after Yanez found not guiltyhttps://t.co/9gpo8mUSsc pic.twitter.com/ZCXviWTqXR At University & Farrington heading West. #PhilandoCastile pic.twitter.com/N9j3bZEYtu St Paul police estimate crowd to be around 1500. The #PhilandoCastile supporters are now shouting  #BlackLivesMatter. Green line closed. pic.twitter.com/UcZ2k0uqBk It's amazing, we marched 10 blocks and I literally haven't seen one cop. Thousands of people on the street. pic.twitter.com/z2x8NIh1R4 A timelapse of demonstrators for #PhilandoCastile as they leave the State Capitol and march and chant down University Ave. pic.twitter.com/1ZKzIhQUhI "His Story Matters": a sign from the #PhilandoCastile march at sunset on University Avenue. @kare11 pic.twitter.com/91vyNG4LVy People continue to march for #PhilandoCastile down the light-rail line as the sun sets. Organizers trying to get everyone behind banners. pic.twitter.com/3sOFpZxCUj Marchers turning left on Victoria towards I-94 pic.twitter.com/Sd0l7tBCOW The crowd seems to have grown over the last two hours. #PhilandoCastile supporters are now walking away from University Ave crossing freeway pic.twitter.com/ez8vz7nYLm I-94 now shut down in both directions pic.twitter.com/s7CUpk5xFM Share this slide: