Women are enjoying an historic moment in British politics. On Thursday, voters in the United Kingdom elected a record number of female politicians to office. The final figure of female Members of Parliament had yet to be confirmed Friday morning ― but the tally had reached 201 by 9 a.m. local time. Women now represent just over 30 percent of the UK's 650 constituencies, and the milestone didn't go unnoticed on Twitter: If my Maths is right over 200 #women MPs have been elected in #GeneralElections2017 which is worth celebrating no matter who governs Fantastic to see so many female MPs getting seats #GE2017 Edge of your seat stuff. Kept me up all night without coffee. Record number of women elected and great % turnouts. Very impressive. How many women got elected from both parties? They were storming through before I went to bed last night #GirlPower More women elected to UK parliament than ever before, 104 years to the day since Emily Wilding Davison died. #ge2017 And in good news: for the first time in British history, over 200 women have been elected into Parliament 👏👏👏 Record number of female MPs elected - over 200. Previous record was 196. Four seats still to declare, some of which likely to return women. MORE THAN 200 WOMEN ELECTED AS MPS THIS IS TOO GOOD A record number of women have been elected as MPs in the U.K, with the 2017 intake surpassing 200. Outstanding! 👏🏻 #GE2017 Despite the progress, some also called for more gender equality at future elections: More women elected as UK MPs than ever before but still not nearly enough. What are we still so far from #50:50 representation? #GE2017 Indeed, so many people talking about 'historic and record breaking results' for women... let's save that for when we get to 50:50 How #GeneralElection brings record number of #women#MPs, but still over twice as many #menhttps://t.co/QqZwj1ZlQ5 At the 2015 general election, a total of 191 women won election. The tally of women in Parliament rose to 196 following subsequent by-elections. UK Prime Minister Theresa May was among those who won reelection Thursday. But her leadership of the Conservative Party is now at risk, as she faces criticism that her campaign resulted in its loss of a parliamentary majority. But while many celebrated the women's parliamentary achievements, others pointed out that some sections of UK politics still have a long way to go on gender equali issues. And feminist campaigners have condemned the reelection of Conservative candidate Philip Davies in the Shipley constituency, who faced accusations last year of "talking out" a domestic violence bill in Parliament: Reading that Philip Davies held his seat in the end pic.twitter.com/7vKJCpjB6n Ugh. Shipley has just re-elected the Tory turd who opposed the domestic violence bill, Philip Davies