We are totally gutted that Babes Wodumo may not be able to walk the Black Entertainment (BET) Awards' red carpet come Sunday, June 25. According to a Sunday Tribune report published on IOL, Babes' team could not get her the necessary travel documents on time. Babes, real name Bongekile Simelane, is nominated for the Best International Act: Africa, alongside AKA and Nasty C at the awards ceremony which takes place at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles. Melody Mhlongo, of West Ink Records, told Drum Magazine that her team was still working on securing an interview between Babes and officials at the US Embassy for her to receive her visa. Tweeters have since called on Babes, who is seemingly the only nominee not in Los Angeles yet, to take her career more seriously. They did not hold back on criticism of her management team.  Please tell me Babes has a visa to go to the BETs, guys. I've had a tough week, I don't need this extra drama pic.twitter.com/XibW7HqiY5   My thoughts on Babes, summarised pic.twitter.com/AYDeXx0YJ3   I still say Tira is the guy to grow Babes   Babes Wodumo couldn't get a US visa? Her team is failing her! Ningabi nomona pha eDirco, anim'zameni uBabes bandla. Ewu...   Babes is still a child & new in the industry. She's clueless. The team is to blame!!   Remember how this wrong link for BET votes stayed up on Babes Wodumo page for days. Where was her PR/mangement person? pic.twitter.com/cfTU0flAlz   Dear @BABESWODUMO

You're a big brand now and professionalism is needed.Get yourself a PR management team.Don't mix business with pleasure.   @BABESWODUMO needs to rethink about his music career under the leadership of West Ink management.  At this point, it seems we have to take Mampintsha's word when he told Drum that: "It's not that she is not going, we are still trying. Even yesterday we were working on it, we didn't sleep". He added: "But it's the issue of getting someone to sign and we are [being] sent from one person to the next". We wait with bated breaths and crossed fingers for a positive outcome.