People online poked fun at the way President Donald Trump's cabinet lavished praise on their "dear leader" during its first gathering on Monday.Many likened the footage of cabinet members eulogizing Trump to an episode from his reality TV show "The Apprentice." Here's how Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) responded: GREAT meeting today with the best staff in the history of the world!!! pic.twitter.com/ocE1xhEAacSome Twitter users said the meeting bore a striking similarity to a scene from the "Harry Potter" movie franchise, while others questioned whether North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un's cabinet members acted the same way.Check out some of the best responses below:The approval rating among cabinet members is sky high. https://t.co/ysBCjqSsnDSo is anyone going to put the photo of Trump's sycophantic cabinet meeting next to this one of Voldemort's at Malfoy Manor? pic.twitter.com/5n7xaBZNIHTrump Cabinet meeting was like an episode of "Apprentice": Each person trying to outdo the last in praise of Trumphttps://t.co/caogFBV14RCringing so hard. https://t.co/yergPC3VKCTrump cabinet meeting is a fascinating depiction of what seems to be a meeting to pat Trump on the head and tell him he's a good boy.Can anyone who saw groveling session of a Cabinet mtng, were everyone sucked-up to Dear Leader, doubt Trump asked Comey to pledge loyalty??@Cabinet@realDonaldTrump Today's cabinet meeting had all the lick spittle toadyism and sycophantic flattery typical of Venezuela or N KoreaI imagine Kim Jong-un's cabinet meetings go much the same as Trump's sycophantic display today #Cult45If Trump's cabinet were any more sycophantic, they would have ritualistically sacrificed their own children while chanting Donald's name.Trump cabinet meeting sycophantic spectacle. Like tacitus' description of the roman senate kissing nero's ass.Please please PLEASE tell me these are edited clips strung together to make it seem like a circle of praise at a Girl Scout Camp.I think I just threw up in my mouth a little.Wait is Trump a god now? Sad and ridiculousSo? It's only decent to say grace before you swallow your dignity. https://t.co/KXIlX6hq9aThe body of Trump, the blood of Trump...our communionTurns out Trump isn't Julius Caesar, he's King Lear.King Lear directed by Mel Brooks"And the Lord was pleased, and bestowed much favor upon Reince Ben Richard, until he was wroth with him." https://t.co/zEY67f3cc2"Which of you shall we say doth love us most?" https://t.co/oHk0xWE2dxWith tough love like this, it's shocking that they can't get Trump to act presidential... https://t.co/oH0OS5dYy6This interminable cabinet spray, where everybody pays tribute to Trump, is one of the most exquisitely awkward public events I've ever seen.He absolutely would never ask anyone for loyalty though. Completely out of character. https://t.co/hVldvLyOtn