Michael Gove has made a dramatic comeback as Theresa May appointed the MP to the Cabinet in her post-election reshuffle. But questions have been raised about his new brief as Environment Secretary as critics pointed to his record on climate change and wildlife. The former Justice Secretary was sacked by May when she became Prime Minister last year, and it seemed his frontline career was over while she remained in Downing Street. Yet during May's increasingly wobbly General Election campaign, Gove was frequently on television defending the Prime Minister, and it seems his actions have been rewarded. Delighted to welcome @michaelgove as our Secretary of State. Read more here: https://t.co/wVl9Gwadqppic.twitter.com/VPJsN7LWFj Gove takes over from fellow Brexiteer -- and one-time Tory leadership contender -- Andrea Leadsom, who has been moved to Leader of the Commons, and will take over a role that includes farming, fisheries and flooding. But the appointment has upset campaigners. If you thought the Greens were less significant after the election, think again. We're needed more than ever to fight toxic Tories. https://t.co/ma91lemQFf GOVE? GOVE??? GOOOOOOVE???? May throws a bone to DUP dogs in the form of climate sceptic environment minister. https://t.co/pvcmgm9z6D Here's what they're alarmed about: In 2013, the Guardian reported the then Education Secretary was blocked in an attempt to drop climate change from the geography national curriculum. It was written up as a victory for Lib Dem Energy Secretary Ed Davey as Gove wanted to slim down the "unwieldy" curriculum and give teachers more freedom. Sources told the newspaper climate change would appear under science and the human impact on global warming would be included, but environmentalists and science teachers feared the downgrade would pit its existence in dispute. The new Minister of the Environment, Michael Gove, with his chief climate change advisor pic.twitter.com/zjlggzqoLg Michael Gove has just been appointed Environment Secretary - he said in March he wants to slash wildlife protection https://t.co/h3VRB8x3rBpic.twitter.com/9hDAlanC5p In March, the Independent reported on a speech Gove gave arguing for regulations preventing building near protected wildlife habitats to be scrapped when the UK leaves the European Union. He said: "I am very, very keen – I may be odd in this respect as Conservative MP – on having more homes built in my constituency. It's a social and economic good. But homes built in my constituency are governed by the Habitats Directive. "The Habitats Directive holds that if you build a home within five kilometres of a particular type of terrain, heathland, then you have to allocate, at the same time, something called suitable alternative natural green space to offset the environmental impact." Michael Gove is pro-Badger Cull, pro-lifting the ban on fox hunting and wanted to remove Climate Change from the National Curriculum. It would be strange for an Environment Secretary to be against two long-standing Tory policies, but his support for badger culling to curb the spread of TB in cows and likelihood of voting in favour of scrapping Labour's Hunting Act is likely to draw criticism from environmentalists. Freshly re-elected Tory MP and former Ecologist magazine editor Zac Goldsmith pointed to a "brilliant" speech where he argued there was a "Conservative instinct" at the heart of protecting the environment. 3 yrs ago @michaelgove gave this brilliant speech on the environment. As our new Env Sec, it's worth reading: https://t.co/UKnDR2DVGf In the speech, he said "man and his activities clearly have an influence on the climate" and "we need to be guided by the science" while being "hard-headed but realistic".