It's D-Day for the Joburg leg of the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week 2017 and the who's who in the fashion scene will head to the Mall of Africa in Waterfall Park, Midrand, on Wednesday evening for start of the event themed #RootedInStyle. The first show kicks off with Kluk CDGT taking to the runway. More shows are scheduled to follow from Thursday to Saturday. There will be 44 South African and international designers at this year's show. Making their debut will be Tanzania's Sheria Ngowi, Chidinma Obairi from Nigeria and Vizuvlgvds from the United States.
Fashion Week favourites, Leigh Schubert, Marianne Fassler and David Tlale will also showcase their collections.  Describing his collection, Thula Sindi said it was all about a celebration of 10 years of the Thula Sindi brand. "A love letter to all my customers. This collection revisits all my favourite things... Simplicity. Inspired. Sophistication," he said. Renowned designer and brains behind Leopard Frock, Fassler said her collection for the show would respond to a recent trip by the creative director Lezanne Viviers, to Morocco. "The traces of this adventure provide the leitmotiv for this collection, reflecting both the craft, the colours and the connectedness of everything on this continent," Sassler said. Ngowi said his favourite material for the spring/summer season is linen meanwhile his go to colours are royal blue, white, grey and black.  About his collection for the show, the men's wear designer said he's learnt that resilience and having unshakeable faith, are vital ingredients to being the best he can be. "The humble realization that what I am fighting for today, what I am building today, is breaking barriers for the generations to come and in so doing, I am able to leave a legacy of hope, endurance and courage for other young Africans. My new collection embodies this," Ngowi said. Through his brand, Vizuvlgvds (pronounced visual gods), American designer, Muktar Onifade will be showcasing his "GVD IN YOU" collection, inspired by the renaissance of young African creative's.  His favourite trend for the season?
"Oversized Basic and graphic tees, light weight shorts and fitted dress pants as well as loose fit tracksuits," Onifade said. Ticket sales are open and they sell from R150 to R300 per show, depending on the designer and the seating. All shows will take to the runway at Mall of Africa, apart from David Tlale's extravaganza, which will take place at a venue yet to be announced. More details are available here.