The official programme of the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week (MBFW) got underway on Thursday night with much fanfare. The who's who of the fashion industry braved the cold and came out in numbers to attend the event, which is in its 10th year. Media personalities Thando Thabethe, Nomzamo Mbatha and Euphonik were also in attendance. The show kicked off with Cape Town based designer Gavin Rajah followed by a collection from Spero Villioti. The shows that followed were those of AFI Prive and Thula Sindi. The only beef with it was how late the programme ran. Read: Fashion With A Purpose: KLûK CGDT Return To The Runway For Charity Prive was scheduled to hit the runway at 8.30pm and Sindi's collection would show an hour after. However, Prive only started at 10pm. But despite this, it was amazing to watch. The highlight of the night was the announcement that Africa Fashion International (AFI) and MBFW founder Dr Precious Moloi-Motsepe has been chosen as the first recipient of the inaugural Fashion 4 Development Franca Sozzani Award. Also read: It's Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week O'clock -- Here's What You Can Expect From The Designers This Year The award aims to commemorate the late Franca Sozzani who was the editor in chief of Vogue Italia. Making the announcement at the show was renowned designer and friend to Motsepe, Marianne Fassler who congratulated the medical doctor turned fashion powerhouse on the achievement. Fassler said Dr Moloi-Motsepe's efforts through AFI have been recognised globally by industry leaders including Fern Mallis the creator of New York Fashion Week and Sozzani who in her honour, dedicated an entire issue of Vogue Italia to showcasing African designers and using only black models. Also read: South African Fashion Runways Should Embody What South Africans Actually Look Like Moloi-Motsepe will receive the award during a United Nations General Assembly on September 19 in New York. Responding to the accolade, Moloi-Motsepe said she shares it with all her colleagues, clients, designers and fashion designers and creatives in Africa.
"They inspire me to become a true pioneer of luxury African fashion. To create, co-create, develop and grow a global audience that recognises and rewards Africa's creativity, ingenuity and craftmanship," her statement read. The show is currently underway at the Mall of Africa in Waterfall Park and runs until Saturday, August 19.