Photos people post on Instagram may reveal clues about the state of their mental health, suggests one study, published in the journal, EPJ Data Science. Researchers from Harvard University and the University of Vermont analysed more than 43,000 Instagram photos from 166 users, 71 of whom had a history of depression. They used computer software designed to scan photos for hidden signals of depression -- and the technology correctly identified depressed people 70 percent of the time. Here's what it showed: These findings support the notion that "major changes in individual psychology are transmitted in social media use and can be identified via computational methods." In a UK survey released earlier this year, Instagram was found to be among the worst social media networks for mental health and wellbeing. The nearly 1,500 respondents (aged 14 to 24) indicated depression as one of the top health issues that affected them. This correlates with previous studies which have shown that millennials who use more social media sites have higher depression and anxiety. Diagnosing depression before a doctor can? Lead author of this newest study on Instagram and depression, Dr Andrew Reece said: "Importantly, we also demonstrate that the markers of depression can be observed in posts made prior to the person receiving a clinical diagnosis of depression." However, mental health professionals agree that the only sure way to know if one is depressed is through an accurate diagnosis by a qualified professional. Something the researchers also acknowledge. They say the study is not yet a diagnostic test, "not by a long shot." Further, some people have noted that the sample for this study is too small for strong conclusions to be drawn between Instagram pictures and depression. Besides, there may be many reasons users post certain types of photos. Blue, grey, black, could be one's favourite colours and one could be on Instagram, but just be a private person. Researchers also noted that future research could look at incorporating textual analysis of comments, captions and tags.