1. The result of a court case currently underway in KZN could decide SA's next president. Veteran ANC leaders in the province are fighting to overthrow the Dlamini-Zuma camp by challenging the results of an election to decide who to support in the presidential race. Read here. 2. ANC treasurer general Zweli Mkhize has been a dark horse about the presidential race. Here's 5 things you should know about him. Watch here.  3. The assault cause against Zim's first lady, Grace Mugabe, threatens to cause a diplomatic crisis, say legal experts. She is claiming diplomatic immunity for allegedly attacking a model with an extension cord, and if not granted that could have far-leading implications for relations between the two countries. Read here. 4. Famous prosecutor Gerrie "The Bulldog" Nell, who has brought down Oscar Pistorius and Jackie Selebi, revealed that Grace Mugabe was next on his hit list. He has been asked to represent alleged victim Gabriella Engels and has already warned Mugabe she is not "untouchable". Read here. 5. The complexity of trying to regulate South Africa's religious leaders is examined in this special analysis. Pastor Mboro tells HuffPost SA that Christianity is being targeted, but watchdogs say some kind of regulation is needed to stop church leaders exploiting vulnerable congregants. Read here.  6. I was a pastor's kid, writes Duenna Mambana, but I still think church leaders need to encourage what the CRL Commission is trying to achieve. "I have a problem with how pastors have become celebrities in the church as opposed to being servants of God," she writes. Read here. 7. President Donald Trump actually thinks a divided country will save him, writes Huffington Post's Howard Fineman and this explains his comments about Charlottesville. "Donald Trump seems perfectly willing to destroy the country to maintain his own power...The goal, as always with Trump, is to win amid the chaos he sows, to be the last man standing in rubble." Read here. 8. An amazing, three-storey high painting of the sea by Cape Town artist Jake Aikman is making waves in the Ukrainian capital of Kiev. It wasn't so to start with though. "I found out that they were saying it was too dark, one woman even brought me a rose because she wanted something more pretty," he says. Read here.   9. Despite the ANC's assurances to the contrary, they have sacked MP Makhosi Khoza from a Parly committee after fellow members refused to work with her for speaking out against corruption and the president. Read here.