More and more South African personalities are fast moving towards global stardom and we cannot help but applaud. Trevor Noah, Black Coffee, Pearl Thusi and Charlize Theron are doing big things in the global space and it's inspiring to see more local stars following in their footsteps. Here are some of the personalities who have recently made big moves and announcements you may have missed. 1. Ayanda Thabethe The "Top Billing" presenter announced on Thursday that she had been appointed as the new global ambassador for Mizani. Thabethe, who joined the show in April, is also the official ambassador of the new Ponds Perfect Color Complex.  2. AKA Real name Kiernan Forbes, the rapper announced his seven figure deal with Reebok to become the new face of the brand in Africa. Although the "Baddest" hitmaker has already made a name for himself internationally, this deal means he joins a global campaign with hip-hop star Future, super model Gigi Hadid and rap duo Rae Sremmurd. Proud to announce that AKA is now officially the face of @ReebokClassics AFRICA #ClassicAKA #ForeverClassic 🇿🇦® pic.twitter.com/FqCw5LjDMH  3. Nandi Madida Besides being mommy to one of South Africa's most loved babies, Shaka, Madida is a media personality hard at work on and off the TV screen. We believe the global spotlight looks great on Madida. In 2016, she hosted the BET Experience and red carpet events leading up to the BET Awards show in Los Angeles. Madida also represented the country and African continent at the Natural Hair Academy in Paris in June. Her clothing line, Colour, has also made waves in international circles. This weekend, she will be in Brooklyn hosting the Afropunk Fest. She will be the first South African to host the festival, which will head to Johannesburg on December 31 for the first time. I'm honored to announce that I'll be making History as the FIRST AFRICAN to host Afropunk Brooklyn in New York City 26&27 August 2017 🇺🇸. pic.twitter.com/wYwNC7Si73  4. Nomzamo Mbatha It's an open secret by now that Mbatha has cemented her place as an entertainer on the global stage.
She recently hosted a number of gigs in the US including the BET Black Girls Rock celebration, the BET Awards and the Essence Festival in New Orleans. She is also the L'Oréal Paris Hair Advocate for the brand's natural hair range. Mbatha also recently won an award at the African Pride Awards held in London in honour of African media personalities excelling in their respective fields. Stage interviews #EssenceFest #essencefestival2017 #BlackGirlMagic  