Twitter has let loose on "The Mooch."On Monday, Anthony Scaramucci was forced out of his position as White House communications director, just 10 days after he was hired.Scaramucci's removal happened one freakin' business day after The New Yorker published a damaging interview in which he vulgarly bashed members of President Donald Trump's senior staff.In the profanity-laced interview, which was published on Friday, Scaramucci was quoted calling then-White House chief of staff Reince Priebus "a fucking paranoid schizophrenic, a paranoiac." He also busted out this gem: "I'm not Steve Bannon, I'm not trying to suck my own cock."During Scaramucci's brief tenure as communications director (which, to be fair, lasted longer than a Mayfly's life span, OK?) his wife filed for divorce and he missed the birth of his child, all of which makes for the perfect Twitterstorm.Here are some of the best jokes about "The Mooch" getting sacked:Mooch pic.twitter.com/FVeivAI3WHI've literally had zits that last longer than Scaramucci did in the White House. Then again, that guy was a zit on common decency.Here's a video of The Mooch's entire White House career. pic.twitter.com/t8gENUilO0I... I can't believe I'm saying this, but every Kim Kardashian marriage has lasted longer than Scaramucci's time as WH Comm Dir.gotta add "scaramucci" to the dictionary as a measure of time"so u guys wanna share an uber lol" pic.twitter.com/jsp8z3eWvLAnthony "The Mooch" Scaramucci will forever be remembered as the "Tori from Saved By The Bell" of the Trump administration.Scaramucci wasn't supposed to officially start until Aug. 15. Can't get fired from a job you don't have yet. pic.twitter.com/eOCJJ2IBCrSnl writers reacting to #themooch being fired before the season begins pic.twitter.com/wacpBAxch5Saddest part of early exit for The Mooch: we didn't really get enough Bohemian Rhapsody references during his brief tenure. #ScarramucciIn fairness to Scaramucci, how could he have seen this com&mdash;*aide whispers entirety of Trump's history of dealing with people in my ear* AhNewsrooms across the country today.#themoochisloosepic.twitter.com/hAYYMoYuGCUnfortunately for the Mooch, the minimum tenure to get invited to the annual WH Comms Directors Reunion is 3 weeksLive footage of Reince Preibus right now.#Scaramuccipic.twitter.com/VHGm2GaYUXBetween being canned this week &amp; his wife filing for divorce last week, #Scaramucci is one dead dog away from becoming a country music song.OMG he's gonna replace Scaramucci with OJThe Mooch is out already. White House continues to run perfectly smoothly, like a fine tuned machine. pic.twitter.com/QKgjQkpaLvAt least now #Scaramucci has time to practice that trick Bannon was teaching him