"Cheap, petty and actually silly" is how Education Minister Angie Motshekga described the ANCWL after it accused her of organising events under its banner. Motshekga, the former president of the African National Congress Women's League, said she was disappointed by a statement issued by the league on Sunday. "The content of the ANCWL media statement is sadly so cheap, petty and actually silly and regretfully this makes it difficult for one to even engage with it constructively without risk," said Motshekga. "It is disappointing that an organisation to which I have dedicated a large portion of my life because it is meant to help women rise up together can release a petty media statement aimed at trying to bring a fellow woman down." Is this what the ANCWL has become under the current leadership?," she asked. The league's secretary-general Meokgo Matuba issued a statement at the weekend saying: "She is a Cabinet Minister responsible for Basic Education with no mandate from the ANCWL to organise any event around the country under the banner of the ANCWL". "Angie must accept that a duly constituted conference of the ANCWL did not vote for her to continue in the leadership helm of the organisation. She must allow herself to be led and desist from trying to rule the ANCWL from the grave." Motshekga denied hosting events under the ANCWL banner and was surprised the movement went directly to the media without requesting facts from her beforehand. Motshekga served the ANCWL for many years and has held numerous positions including president. The league, however, was firm in its statement that any members, present or old, must refrain from undermining the organisation under leadership of Bathabile Dlamini.   "The collective works tirelessly to build effective structures in unifying the organisation. We will not take it kindly if Cde Angie or any of ANCWL member or supporter undermines the unity of the organisation. A united ANCWL is for the benefit of women of South Africa," said Matuba. Minister Motshekga explained that in the past month she had been addressing women every weekend and most evenings as per invitations that were part of women's month activities. She encouraged the leadership of the ANCWL to remain steadfast in its endeavours to emancipate the women of this country rather than take up the "petty political battles as they seem to be focused on of late".