The Office of the ANC Chief Whip has announced Makhosi Khoza has been "relieved" as chairperson of the portfolio committee on public service and administration owing to an "irretrievable breakdown of relations between herself and ANC members of the committee". In a statement released on Thursday afternoon, the office said it had received a directive from ANC to remove her from the position with immediate effect. It also said the decision followed "numerous failed attempts by the leadership of the organisation to counsel her on her behaviour". Khoza would remain an ANC member of parliament "pending the outcomes of disciplinary action taken against her by the organisation", the statement said. The "irretrievable breakdown of relations", it said, arose from her "continued public attacks on ANC leadership and members of her ANC caucus" who voted on August 8 to keep President Jacob Zuma in office. "Comrade Khoza's continued public attacks have led to her alienating ANC members of parliament including those in her committee resulting in an ill-advised and out-of-line decision to boycott any activity she is involved in," it said. Read: MPs Who Snubbed Makhosi Khoza's Parly Meeting Will Be Disciplined -- Jackson Mthembu The statement said the erosion in trust in her as a chairperson led to "acrimonious verbal exchanges" between her and members of the study group. ANC MPs turn on Khoza
ANC MPs on Tuesday afternoon boycotted a meeting of the public service and administration committee chaired by Makhosi Khoza, despite the ANC in Parliament telling Business Day its MPs would attend. According to reports, only one ANC MP pitched to the committee meeting -- Nyami Booi -- in which public service minister Faith Muthambiwas expected to respond to allegations she spent close to R500,000 flying 30 people to Cape Town for her budget vote speech in May. In a letter shared with HuffPost SA by a source in Parliament, ANC members of the study group on public service and administration objected to Khoza as chairperson of the portfolio committee, saying she had violated the ANC's constitution.  All study groups and portfolio committee meetings would be "suspended... until the conduct of Dr. M. Khoza is addressed", it said. Mthembu later lambasted the MPs who boycotted the committee meeting led by Khoza, saying the decision amounted to "gross ill-discipline". The MPs who boycotted the meeting on Tuesday "after clear instructions from the chief whip" to attend have already been subject to an ongoing ANC Caucus disciplinary process, the statement on Thursday said.