"For the sake of the ANC's organisational integrity, the ANCYL calls for harsher measures and the immediate restoration of the organisation's authority over its deployees in government and parliament in particular," the youth league said in a statement. "An unambiguous message needs to be communicated to the extent that no ANC current or future deployee ever gather illusions that he or she can ever be above organisational authority." It did not clarify what would be harsher than being fired. On Thursday, the ANC instructed its chief whip Jackson Mthembu to remove Khoza from her position as chairperson of the portfolio committee on public service and administration after an "irretrievable breakdown of trust" between her and members of the ANC in the committee. Earlier this week, ANC MPs boycotted a meeting of the committee because of Khoza being vocal in favour of a motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma. "She has long joined the list of deployees who have and continue to define themselves outside of the mandate and authority of the ANC, a culture that threatens the ANC's organisational legitimacy and further undermines the faith bestowed upon us by 11 million voters," the youth league said. "The ANCYL strongly believes that merely removing Khoza does not come close to equating to the organisational damage her conduct [caused the ANC]." On the other hand, the Democratic Alliance will be writing to acting secretary of Parliament Penelope Tyawa to ensure minister of public service and administration Faith Muthambi be subpoenaed to appear before her portfolio committee as soon as possible. "The ANC's disgraceful decision to fire...Makhosi Khoza will not allow Muthambi to escape accountability. Muthambi inexplicably failed to appear before her committee on 15 August, despite travelling to Cape Town and giving assurances that she would appear," the DA said. "We cannot and will not allow the ANC's war with itself to impact the work of Parliament and allow errant ministers to evade accountability. South Africa cannot afford two more years of this ANC government." Muthambi was summoned to Parliament by Khoza to explain allegations that she used R300,000 of taxpayers' money to fly her family and friends to Cape Town.