1. ST JOHN'S RACE ROW: Parents at the prestigious high school are speaking out about a culture of racism that has existed in the school for decades. Brave pupils stood up at a meeting to share their personal experiences of prejudice. Read here. 2.BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST vs DAILY MAVERICK GATHERING: Andile Mngxitama and members of the BLF called organisers of The Gathering, hosted by Daily Maverick, fascists for barring them entry to the conference. Meanwhile, HuffPost SA editor-at-large Ferial Haffajee and amaBhungane's Sam Sole launched a court bid to have Mngxitama arrested for contempt of a court order against BLF on July 7. Read here and here. 3. ANC WON'T ABANDON ZUMA: Four days ahead of the vote of no confidence against Zuma and ANC NEC member Derek Hanekom says 50% of ANC MPs are concerned about state capture. Meanwhile, the party's secretary general on Tuesday said NEC members who disagree with the official party line that Zuma should stay, should themselves resign. Read here and here. These are more stories you shouldn't miss from the week that was: 1. A new movement against state capture, called Future South Africa, is touting the idea of a national day of no confidence in Jacob Zuma on August 8, the same day as the Parly vote. Read here. 2. Marikana activist Napoleon Webster, released on bail after six months in jail, said his arrest was politically motivated and potentially a "plot by Cyril Ramaphosa". He is not happy the deputy president is running for the top ANC job after what he sees as his role in causing the Marikana massacre. Read here. 3. Atul Gupta claims the leaked emails about the family's alleged involvement in state capture are "not authentic" and they had nothing to do with a white monopoly capital campaign. In an interview with Radio 4, bosses from his spin machine Bell Pottinger say they made no money from the Gupta account. Shem. Read here. 4. A venue in the Western Cape which refused to host a same-sex wedding could set a dangerous legal precedent, say experts. It's opened a can of worms and revealed a problem of homophobia in the service industry. Read here. 5. Actor and musician, Dumi Masilela was killed in a botched hijacking in Tembisa. Gospel artist Andile KaMajola said: "We are heartbroken by the rate at which we are losing our young stars to crime in South Africa." Read here. The Huff Weekly Review is a recap of the top three stories of the week that you cannot miss... told in 90 seconds. The weekly roundup is released every Friday.