1. Removing President Jacob Zuma would be "tantamount to throwing a nuclear bomb at this country", according to the ANC's Arm Twister In Charge Jackson Mthembu. Is this scare language a sign that he is not so sure all his MPs are on board? Read here. 2. The communist party may have asked Zuma to step down, but it is still siding with him in the vote. That's not a contradiction, according to spokesperson Alex Mashilo. It's all in the rule book, apparently. Read here. 3. The furore at St John's College is not dying down, with alumni stepping up calls for headmaster Paul Edey to step down for mishandling a racist incident. "It is a South African school and it needs to start representing South Africa," said old boy Omphile Ramela. Read here. 4. Nigerian American actress Yvonne Orji is a lovely, warm and talented human being. And she has the patience of a saint to deal with all those "orgy" jokes in relation to her decision to wait until she's married. She tells HuffPost SA all about her faith. 5. At least 50 percent of ANC MPs are worried about state capture, says one of their own -- Derek Hanekom. "Many months later, there is another vote of no confidence. Now, it is much more difficult to vote against it," he reportedly said. Read here. 6. Bonang Matheba is celebrity royalty, and brought that theme right into the launch of her book about... herself. Here's the best snaps from the pink-themed bash. Read here. 7. Donald Trump's lawyers are scrambling to say the right thing, after it was revealed that subpoenas are being issued through a grand jury as part of an investigation into Russian influence in last year's presidential election. Read here. 8. It's time people demanded our leaders do something about the crazy cost of data in SA, writes Khethukuthula Mhlongo. "The average cost of broadband for a South African internet user is around R337 a month. For the average user in the UK, the cost is about R36 a month." Read here. 9. Think what South Africa could do with R3.5 billion. No, that's not the latest installment to state capture stooges, it's what Paris Saint Germain paid for Neymar. Here's the consequences for the business of the beautiful game. Read here.