South Africa is rapidly becoming a global domain and playground for international musicians. 2017 has already seen an influx of global superstars, and we still expect to see a number of international stars who are to make their maiden appearance in the motherland. South African PR specialist Melanie Ramjee told HuffPost SA that, "Africa right now is the place to be, we are a first world country on all sort of standards, we have an international standard caliber". She further added that "our artist are putting themselves out there, management is making sure they are getting recognized overseas, and that was something we have not been doing in the past 10 years". She mentioned how the likes Black Coffee, real name Nkosinathi Maphumulo and Trevor Noah has elevated the status of South Africa in the past year. Here are some of the international stars that have graced the country, and those international stars who are due to make their way to the motherland for the first time. Justin Bieber   Justin Bieber made his second appearance in South Africa earlier this year as he performed in Johannesburg and Cape Town. Travis Scott   Travis Scott delivered one of the most breathtaking performances by an International act in South Africa. The dome was filled to its 20,000 capacity. He also performed in Polokwane the following night Read: Travis Scott's Top 5 Performances at Castle Lite Unlock 2017 Bryson Tiller   Bryson Tiller graced the shores of South Africa when he came along with Travis Scott at the Castle Lite Unlocks 2017. He performed in Johannesburg and in Polokwane in his first visit to the country. French Montana   After Tory Lanez announced he would not be at the Durban July concert due to "unforeseen circumstances", Mabala Noise announced that U.S. hip-hop artist French Montana would replace Lanez at this year's Vodacom Durban July. Read: French Montana To Headline Durban July Pre-party After Tory Lanez Pulled Out Still to come... A$AP Ferg   The first annual Capsule Fest announced that they will be bringing U.S hip-hop star A$AP Ferg as the headline artist to perform at the unique festival. The international star will be supported by a cast of local youngs musician with the likes of Nasty C and Gemini Major. This unique festival which took two years to conceive, will showcase the popular hip-hop acts that have influenced the South African hip-hop culture. "Africa right now is the place to be, we are a first world country on all sort of standards, we have an international standard caliber", Ramjee said. Migos   American hip-hop group, Migos are coming to Durban and Johannesburg in October of this year. The South African record label Mabala Noise. The group are coming to South Africa as part of their Culture World Tour and will be performing to a South African audience for the first time. The group is famous for their 2016 hip hop anthem Bad and Boujee which has seen them eclipse over 700 million views on Youtube. Read: Raindrops, Drop Tops: Migos Are Coming To South Africa John Legend   Multi-Grammy award winner John Legend will be back in South Africa in November as part of his 'Darkness and Light' tour. While people cannot contain their excitement, they have called on the "All of Me" hitmaker to bring along his wife, Chrissy Teigen. John Legend and Big Concerts announced his return to the country on social media to much fanfare. South Africa I'm coming to you for #DARKNESSANDLIGHT Tour! Tickets on sale Aug 25th at 9AM local, get yours here: https://t.co/1bP2mMTeCv pic.twitter.com/tUFqoSrGqf 