A husband's Instagram message to his curvy wife went viral -- and we're here for it. US author Robbie Tripp took to the social media site to gush about his fashion blogger wife, Sarah, and to challenge "the very narrow and very specific standard of beauty" that's often promoted by the media. "I love this woman and her curvy body," the 26-year-old wrote. Tripp says he was often teased by his friends for being attracted to girls "on the thicker side, ones who were shorter and curvier, girls that the average (basic) bro might refer to as chubby or even fat." He writes that as he grew older and started educating himself on issues such as feminism and the media's portrayal of beauty, he then "realised how many men have bought into that lie." "For me, there is nothing sexier than this woman right here: thick thighs, big booty, cute little side roll, etc," his Instagram post said. "Her shape and size won't be the one featured on the cover of Cosmopolitan but it's the one featured in my life and in my heart." Tripp's advice to his fellow brothers: "Guys, rethink what society has told you that you should desire. A real woman is not a porn star or a bikini mannequin or a movie character. She's real. She has beautiful stretch marks on her hips and cute little dimples on her booty. And to the sisters: "Girls, don't ever fool yourself by thinking you have to fit a certain mould to be loved and appreciated. There is a guy out there who is going to celebrate you exactly for who you are, someone who will love you like I love my Sarah."  || I love this woman and her curvy body. As a teenager, I was often teased by my friends for my attraction to girls on the thicker side, ones who were shorter and curvier, girls that the average (basic) bro might refer to as "chubby" or even "fat." Then, as I became a man and started to educate myself on issues such as feminism and how the media marginalizes women by portraying a very narrow and very specific standard of beauty (thin, tall, lean) I realized how many men have bought into that lie. For me, there is nothing sexier than this woman right here: thick thighs, big booty, cute little side roll, etc. Her shape and size won't be the one featured on the cover of Cosmopolitan but it's the one featured in my life and in my heart. There's nothing sexier to me than a woman who is both curvy and confident; this gorgeous girl I married fills out every inch of her jeans and is still the most beautiful one in the room. Guys, rethink what society has told you that you should desire. A real woman is not a porn star or a bikini mannequin or a movie character. She's real. She has beautiful stretch marks on her hips and cute little dimples on her booty. Girls, don't ever fool yourself by thinking you have to fit a certain mold to be loved and appreciated. There is a guy out there who is going to celebrate you for exactly who you are, someone who will love you like I love my Sarah. || photo cred: @kaileehjudd A post shared by ROBBIE TRIPP™ (@tripp) on Jul 30, 2017 at 6:10pm PDT  His 25-year-old wife, Sarah, told the TODAY show that although she was moved by her husband's message, it wasn't particularly unusual for him to praise her in this way. "He always makes me feel so loved and appreciated. As a body-positive fashion blogger, I've been very open about my body love journey and my goal to help other curvy women learn to love their body. I just feel so lucky that I have a husband who has loved every inch of me since the day we met," she told the show. so lucky i found someone who loves cheetah print as much as i do, understands and supports my designer tastes, compliments my booty about 20 times a day, and always gives me the last bite of his treats. there's nothing more magical than being loved by you, my blue eyed guy. 💙✨ // http://liketk.it/2swtp #liketkit @liketoknow.it #mysf pc: @corbinballard A post shared by sarah tripp (@sassyredlipstick) on Aug 26, 2017 at 9:05pm PDT  Ever since the post, men from around the world have tagged their girlfriends and wives, telling them how much they love their curvy bodies. || WOW. That's the only word in the English language fitting for what's happened the last few days. After my last post about Sarah went viral here on Instagram and then on Facebook, it's now been picked up by @todayshow, @enews, @popsugar, and others. It's been incredible to see the reaction from my simple post celebrating my wife and her body. So much positivity and love have come from it. Seeing men from around the world tagging their girlfriend/wife and telling her how much they love her curvy body has been amazing. Thanks to each and every person who has commented and messaged us with your thoughtful words. It means the absolute world to us! Be sure to watch my IG Stories to experience this excitement with us! || A post shared by ROBBIE TRIPP™ (@tripp) on Aug 2, 2017 at 9:10pm PDT  Aren't they just adorable? A post shared by ROBBIE TRIPP™ (@tripp) on Jul 16, 2017 at 8:18pm PDT  || I'll be honest, my wife would have a full time job listening to ALL the things that go on inside my head, but I love this sentiment nonetheless. Sometimes @sassyredlipstick cuddles up to me at night and asks me to tell her a story. Sometimes I'll rip my headphones off in the middle of a flight and lean over to tell her all about a breakthrough I just had with one of my projects. Other days I'll lay my head on her chest and tell her that I'm stressed because I feel so much creative pressure or that I am so mentally exhausted after writing all evening. Hopefully you have that one special person in your life. If not, keep searching. It's one of the most precious gifts in the world. || A post shared by ROBBIE TRIPP™ (@tripp) on Dec 18, 2016 at 9:27pm PST  || Three years ago today my soul became intertwined with hers forever and always. Marrying her will always be the single greatest decision I ever made. Sharing my life with this gorgeous doll face has brought me more joy than I could have ever anticipated. So grateful to have a love that will outlast all the stars in the sky. || #HappyAnniversary A post shared by ROBBIE TRIPP™ (@tripp) on May 10, 2017 at 10:06pm PD 