We think Babes Wodumo deserves a break from 2017 already. Fam, the misfortunes this artist has had to face are enough to make anyone want to go into hiding for the remainder of the year. Babes, real name Bongekile Simelane, took to Instagram on Sunday pleading with her fans to look out for a USB that was missing from the possession of West Ink Records. She announced that the USB had very classified information -- her new song "Ganda Ganda" which had not been mastered yet. She said people had already heard the song being played around Durban's South Beach. But she also had a solution to how people could assist in solving the problem.
"My concern is that this song has not been mastered yet. So if I may please ask that you be on the look out and send us a link to the song so we can be able to delete it," she said. It was this very request that got people talking with some refusing to believe that there was no way she could be seriously asking that.    But before you start looking at South Beach people suspiciously, Babes has since found her most valued device and she also announced some good news -- the song will be released on Wednesday fam. Phew! We know now that it was all a PR stunt to raise awareness on the new song. While people have called for Mampinstha to start taking Babes' career seriously and get it together already, we cannot help but believe this stunt worked -- now people know the song is dropping tomorrow.   Othi sithi mixing & mastering khona manje bezoyithola iqinile my Queen #BabesWezimangaliso 🙏🙏 make sho that you get it on I Tunes tomoro mhlaba wonke 🌍 #WESTINKBANGER 1 #GHANDA GHANDA Danki mzansi 👊  On the sidelines though, we think both Babes and her beau and manager, Mandla Mampintsha Maphumulo, will have to start paying us for all the heartaches they give us. In June, Babes failed to attend the BET Awards in LA because she did not apply for a Visa on time. She was nominated for the Best International Act: Africa alongside AKA and Nasty C. At the time, Maphumulo, who owns West Ink Records, vowed to make things right by signing Babes to a PR company. Barely a month after signing to African Star Communications, the deal fell through and we were back to square one. But thank goodness, shortly after that she then signed to Capacity Relations. In May, the couple took to social media accusing the South African Music Awards (Sama) of being bought after Babes walked away empty handed besides being nominated numerous times. In the videos, she vowed to no longer attend local awards shows but later retracted. Also, would the song be kept on a USB drive anyway?