1. Sanral is trying to address the massive financial flop of the e-tolls system in Gauteng with an amended bill in Parliament about how such schemes will be launched in future. It aims to address peoples' concerns. But how it will address the number one concern -- that people, er, don't want to pay (R6 billion in unpaid tolls in Gauteng so far) remains to be seen. Read here. 2. The president's son Duduzane Zuma really went to town in an open letter to former finance minister Pravin Gordhan. He accused him of being in bed with the banks and conducting a personal campaign to "destroy" him over state capture claims. Put up (the evidence) or shut up, he said. Read here. 3. Embattled ANC MP Derek Hanekom, under disciplinary measures by the ruling party, questions why President Zuma seems so reluctant to appoint an inquiry into state capture. "As a former member of Cabinet, most of us were quite unaware of the depth and extent of it [state capture]." Read here. 4. Your Instagram posts can be pretty accurate clues about your state of mind, according to a new study. Prefer certain colours, or not like too many faces in one post? You could be depressed. Read here. 5. "Cheap, petty and actually silly" is how Education Minister Angie Motshekga described the ANCWL after it accused her of organising events under its banner. "Is this what the ANCWL has become under the current leadership?," she asked. Read here. 6. It's been called Pants-gate. Well, by us at HuffPost anyway. Pupils at Hoerskool Pretoria West boycotted classes to protest not being allowed to wear skinny pants. Now even Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi has got involved and he fears such garments will affect "discipline, control and management" and may even be a security risk. Read here. 7. Robert Mugabe wants to know why whites still hold so much power in South Africa. Speaking at the national shrine during the burial of Moudy Muzenda and George Rutanhire over the weekend, Mugabe said: "I asked one ANC Minister how come the whites have been left with so much power, and he said it was because of your friend Mandela. That was an ANC Minister who was saying that..." Read here. 8. He was referring to International Relations Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, and now Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota has called on the ANC to recall her. "It was her [Mashabane's] duty to tell him [Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe] that our country has one government which has black and white South Africans involved, who are governing with one executive and judiciary," he said. Read here. 9. Actress and media personality Enhle Mbali Maphumulo may have just started a new trend by attending the inaugural DStv Mzansi Viewers' Choice Awards in her wedding dress. Peeps in social media were happy. Read here.