 Award-winning actress Terry Pheto and entrepreneur Mampho Brescia launched an online educational toy store, Let's Learn Toys, on Thursday - and we couldn't be more delighted. The pair, who are BFFs, said they are passionate about making education accessible to all children -- and they saw no better way to achieve this than through the medium of play. A post shared by Let's Learn Toys (@letslearntoys) on Jul 28, 2017 at 10:18am PDT  "We can give the kids tools to empower themselves," said Pheto at the launch. The 36-year-old said she wasn't exposed to a lot of toys when growing up - but has been intentional about giving her nephews and nieces meaningful and educational items. Brescia was raised by a mother who strongly believed in education, and as a mother herself, she wants the same for her child. About the toys Let's Learn Toys are targeted at children between 18-months and 18-years-old. There are more than 2,000 products in the range and the toys are geared towards developing children's motor skills, visual-eye perception and imagination. A post shared by Let's Learn Toys (@letslearntoys) on Jul 10, 2017 at 10:14am PDT  A post shared by Let's Learn Toys (@letslearntoys) on Aug 23, 2017 at 7:38am PDT  Did you know there is a direct correlation to higher achievement in maths and numeracy subjects by children who engage in playing with block related toys? // Who played with blocks growing up? And who wishes they had 😝? A post shared by Let's Learn Toys (@letslearntoys) on Jul 31, 2017 at 9:49am PDT  For the older kids, the focus will be on developing their maths, science, technology and literature skills. The cheapest toy is about R29 and the most expensive is over R1,000. Pheto and Brescia are also working on including indigenous African and South African toys in the range. The toys will also cater to children with learning difficulties and disabilities. Gauteng Education MEC, Panyaza Lesufi commended the pair on the brilliant initiative:  We also couldn't be prouder of Pheto and Brescia's initiative - especially in a country where early childhood development has been identified as being vital to the development of every child.  A post shared by Let's Learn Toys (@letslearntoys) on Jun 23, 2017 at 9:13am PDT  "I think there is always a need for education. Trends come and go but we wanted something that will be part of our legacy, and showcase the values and beliefs that we have...Not every child will have the same tool but that doesn't mean they can't achieve stuff," Pheto told IOL.  