1. Although ANC treasurer general Zweli Mkhize's name has been thrown into the presidential race, it seems this unassuming dark horse has no intention of going after the big prize. Instead, Mkhize is strategically positioned to claim the next best thing -- the title of deputy president. Read it here.   2. Grace Mugabe, Zimbabwe's first lady and the woman accused of assaulting a 20-year-old model in South Africa, has reportedly purchased a R45 million mansion in Johannesburg. She reportedly bought the 9249 square-metre property in Sandhurst through a shelf company in February. Read more here.

3. Khoza also faces charges of bringing the party into disrepute and her disciplinary hearing will be held in September. It seems however, that more MPs will face the music. President Jacob Zuma is already calling for the estimated 26 ANC lawmakers who supported the motion of no confidence to face disciplinary hearings. Read more.   4. If we have an education system that fails to educate people on the receiving end... Can it really be labelled as education then? Life Orientation [L.O] has been criticized for being unable to equip learners with the necessary skills and training they need, writes Journalism and Media Student, Charissa Cassels.

5. While South Africans are relieved that Gabriella Engels' case will not fade away as they called it, they have some advice for Mugabe, who might believe she will get away with this like she did when she allegedly attacked journalists in Singapore back in July this year. Sigh. Read more.

6. The Supreme Court of Appeal in Bloemfontein on Friday overturned an earlier decision granting Chris Hani's killer, Janusz Walus, parole. Walus, a Polish immigrant and white supremacist, has spent 24 years in jail for assassinating the SACP leader and Mandela's likely successor in April 1993 together with Clive Derby-Lewis, who died of cancer in November last year. Read more.

7. The assault case against Zimbabawe's first lady, Grace Mugabe, needs to be handled with care because it could have disastrous implications for relations between South Africa and Zimbabwe, two experts said on Thursday. Read more. 8. Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane has reaffirmed his party's plan for economic development in South Africa, saying an inclusive market economy remains the most resilient way of improving the lives of the poor, writes Amil Umraw.

9. Grace Mugabe's alleged history of violence has won her the title "Doctor Stop It" in Zimbabwe. Here are five other instances in which she's lost her cool while abroad: 