Media personality Bonang Matheba launched her book at Sandton City's Diamond Walk on Thursday night to much fanfare. The book, Bonang: From A to B, is Matheba's first and was published by Black Bird Books in conjunction with Jacana Media. The who's who of showbiz in attendance included Terry Phetho, Rami Chuene, Basetsana Khumalo, Johanna Mukoki and Mampho Brescia. Her parents and family members also graced the event. Welcoming invited guests and fans, publisher Thabiso Mahlape said she was grateful to have worked with Matheba on the project. "When we started the process of bringing this book into life, I asked Bonang if she liked me. Because I know that along the way, there are fights between authors and publishers. At times we wanted to kill each other. This is why a healthy and strong relationship between an author and their author is very important," Mahlape said. She said working with Matheba changed her life. "Working with you [Bonang] has changed the way I do business forever. During her dialogue with the night's host, journalist and news anchor, Ayanda-Allie Paine, Matheba shared her her life story, the inspiration behind the book as well as her childhood. "The inspiration for this book came from an experience I had when I moved from SABC1's Live to join Top Billing. That was when I was met by a lot of resistance in my life and thought I should actually write it down and share it with everybody, but it was not time yet. The thing about life is that things don't just happen, they come at a point in time that God has ordained for you," she said. Matheba said when the time was right, she started penning the book. "I'm at a point in my life where I feel that the Chapter C of my life is starting and I needed to jot down, save, file and archive the chapters that were A and B. This book explains the 13 years that I've been in the entertainment industry. I've learnt over the years that there is power in sharing your story with someone else. Someone out there needs to know that they're not alone and that what they are going through someone else overcame and also how that person was able to beat those odds," said Matheba. The 30-year-old released her book early July and already it has claimed the number one spot as a best seller at Exclusive Books. The pink-themed launch party was a royal celebration like no other. Here it is in pictures:  Share this slide:  