1. The 30 or so ANC MPs who voted against Jacob Zuma in the secret ballot probably won't be fired, despite the best attempts of the president. Expect more and more chaos in the run-up to the election of a new party president in December, say analysts. Read here. 2. The day of the no-confidence motion was the day the moral pulse was extinguished, says rebel MP Makhosi Khosa. "Once again, our party chose to side with a President who has consistently failed to uphold, defend and respect the constitution" she wrote. Read here. 3. National heroine Caster Semenya retains her dignity, despite continued homophobic sniping from right-ring columnists like Katie Hopkins, who claim her masculine attributes give her an unfair advantage. We prefer to celebrate her achievements which now include the 800m IAAF gold. Read here. 4. South African sports stars like Semenya, Wayde Van Niekerk and Chad Le Clos are testament to our path to worldwide sporting domination. Here's a timeline of the past 10 years. Read here. 5. The neo-Nazi attack in Charlottesville in America is raising many questions about the Donald Trump regime. HuffPost editor-in-chief Lydia Polgreen said in a series of viral tweets that the #RhodesMustFall campaign, and changes to apartheid-era monuments, were progressive examples of how the events unfolding in Charlottesville could've been addressed. Read here. 6. In just under two weeks, a million people watched Bontle Modiselle and her boyfriend, Priddy Ugly, starring in the "I do" music video by La Sauce, featuring Amanda Black. They sparked engagement rumours when they posted a snap for the video, but it turns out it's all in the name of entertainment. Read here. 7. Minister Bathabile Dlamini is not known for her diplomacy. And here she is again, refusing to condemn fellow minister Mduduzi Manana for his alleged attack on a woman in a nightclub. There are others who have done worse apparently, says the ANC Women's League president. Read here. 8. Most of the political discourse around presidential hopeful Lindiwe Sisulu has been pretty sexist, reckons Fazlin Fransman. "When we criticise Lindiwe Sisulu, let's make sure it's fair, proportionate and based in reality," she says. Read here. 9. If you shave "down there" you could be putting yourself at a higher risk of contracting a sexually transmitted infection, according to a new study. Here's the official advice. Read here.   