1. We might think a loss-making disaster like the South African Airways (SAA) needs to be put out to pasture, but Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba doesn't think so. Alf Lees, a MP for the Democratic Alliance, on Wednesday caught Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa off-guard in parliament when he produced a Cabinet memorandum detailing plans to sell government's stake in Telkom to finance the SAA. 2. South Africa's most notorious state capturers, the Gupta family of Saxonwold, are now shedding assets like there's no tomorrow. They've now dumped Tegeta, the mining company that score the Optimum coal mine courtesy of Brian Molefe's Eskom. 3. But even thought they're exiting -- like Monday's announcement that they've sold ANN7 and The New Age -- we're all wondering whether it's all just a front. Well, looking at who bought Tegeta, that question is still up for debate . . . 4. We all agree data is expensive, no? No! The Free Market Foundation believes South Africans should exercise extreme caution when considering dropping the prices of data. Unreal, we know, but have a look at their reasoning. 5. Twitter users have called out media personality and author Bonang Matheba for what they call a rip off following the launch of her app, Bonang By Cell C on Tuesday night. It costs R60 a month! And for what? 6. DA mayor of the City of Johannesburg is continuing on his merry and blustery way, telling HuffPost SA's Garreth van Niekerk that he's smoking out corrupt ANC cadres "one by one". Stirring stuff. 7. Yes, it did happen yesterday, but Amil Umraw's account of how Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma was chased away by Marikana mineworkers was our lead story in the morning and is a good primer on how her campaign is progressing . . . or not. 8. Big business in South Africa has been under fire as being stooges of "white monopoly capital" for a while now, while it's relationship with government is also strained. Read the speech by Bonang Mohale, the chief executive of Business Leadership South Africa,  at the launch of it's "contract with South Africa". 9. Just when you think President Donald Trump can't go off the rails even more . . . he does. Our sister site in the United States sent us this round-up of his speech in Phoenix, Arizona, where he tore up the rulebook and changed historical fact.