1. The terrifying rise of the alt-right movement in the U.S., and president Trump's apparent refusal to downright condemn them, is further polarising society in America. Former President Barack Obama quoted our own Nelson Mandela on Twitter in response to the violence in Charlottesville, and it's the most liked tweet, ever. Read here.  2. Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma is a "difficult nut to crack," says a former colleague. In the second part of our series on the ANC leadership race, we speak to people who know and have worked with the presidential hopeful to get a sense of how she might lead if successful. Read here. 3. "We still see mining companies as criminals... they make so much money but we live in shacks," says an activist during the five year Marikana Massacre commemorations. Nothing much seems to have changed for people living there, and things are especially hard for the families of the killed miners. Watch here.  4. Can Cassper Nyovest really fill up Africa's biggest stadium -- the 90,000 plus capacity FNB stadium -- or is it just wishful thinking? If he succeeds, it will be the biggest hip hop concert in the world. Read here. 5. Rebel MP Makhosi Khoza, who is facing disciplinary action, says her heart is breaking, watching the very disintegration of the country. "I am being hit hard for the death of conscience amongst senior officials of the ANC who expect us, as followers, to protect them when they steal money earmarked for developing the nation." Read here. 6. That Grace Mugabe is one seriously touchy lady, and that's putting it politely. Here are five other times she got away with physically attacking people while travelling abroad. Read here.  7. Why has no-one actually been held accountable for the Marikana Massacre? No one has been prosecuted and there has been no compensation or reparations, points out Amnesty International. "The response from the NPA? Deafening silence. Yet they were keen to forge ahead with prosecuting 16 mineworkers accused of murders before and after the massacre." Read here. 8. FREE ART! Thought that would grab your attention. Artist collaborative Jana + Koos have just created a free-to-download Google Docs folder, full of free original artworks that you can print and install in your home. Read here. 9. It's a critical week ahead for parents and staff at St John's College which has been embroiled in a racism scandal. Existing policies will be examined and parents say they will take further action if they are not happy with ideas for transformation. Read here.    