Lobbyists in the parliamentary caucus of the ANC were on Monday night frantically crunching the numbers ahead of Tuesday afternoon's historic vote of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma. STATE OF PLAY: THE "YES" VOTE There seems to have been a surge of enthusiasm among certain sectors of the caucus to support the motion to dismiss Zuma as head of state after Speaker of parliament, Baleka Mbete, decided the vote would be conducted by secret ballot. Supporters of deputy president Cyril Rampahosa, who believe removing Zuma now and replacing him with Ramaphosa will give him an unassailable lead in the leadership race, were planning to do a tally at midnight on Monday night to see exactly how much support they still need. STATE OF PLAY: THE "NO" VOTE However, based on HuffPost SA's enquiries among a number of MPs, two of which acted as lobbyists for the "yes" vote and one for the "no" vote, it seems that Zuma still commands hefty support. "There is simply too much hype, a lot of it encouraged by the media. The ANC have started its own internal processes to deal with issues that anger many people. The motion will not pass. We know some are itching, but we will deal with them after the vote. Party discipline will carry us through," a lobbyist for the "no" vote said. LOBBYING MATHS The caucus, according to some lobbyists for the "yes" vote, is roughly split between a large chunk of immovable Zuma supporters (45 per cent), ardent opponents (20 per cent) and the rest (35 per cent) that could fall either way. This is how it stacks up: ANC = 256 Opposition = 0 ANC = 256 Opposition = 142 ANC = 256 Opposition = 140 ANC = 216 Opposition 180 ANC = 216 Opposition 180 ANC = 216 Opposition 180 ANC = 195 Opposition = 201 COULD THIS REALLY HAPPEN? Supporters of the "yes" vote on Monday night said they were buoyed by the speaker's decision to allow for a secret vote. Three MPs on that side of the divide said frustration with and anger towards Zuma has increased dramatically over the last six to 12 months. "Lobbying is frantic. Everybody operated on the expectation that the ballot would be open. Now all of a sudden it will be secret, which changes the whole game. Zuma might already be yesterday's news." Those opposed to the motion say the country will be plunged into crisis if the motion is successful and that an appeal to reason will be made to those MPs threatening to vote with the opposition. SUPPORTERS OF THE "YES" VOTE ARE SAYING: SUPPORTERS OF THE "NO" VOTE ARE SAYING: