Outspoken ANC MP Makhozi Khoza has again called on ANC MPs to "vote with their consciences" in Tuesday's vote of no confidence against the president, saying the vote is not one against the ANC, but against a "kleptocracy" developed under Jacob Zuma. In a Facebook post, posted on Monday morning, Khoza said the vote of no confidence is "not a silver bullet", but was a "critical step" towards "taking back our democracy." National Assembly speaker Baleka Mbete is expected to announce whether or not she will allow the vote to happen by secret ballot on Monday afternoon. The EFF has threatened legal action if Mbete refuses. Khoza has been at the receiving end of death threats, and warned on Monday that "retribution will be swift" against "good" ANC MPs who voted against Zuma on Tuesday. "Our democracy has been usurped by a suffocating web of greed, corruption and patronage that has become the hallmark of the current ANC leadership. The ANC is my political home. The ANC is my heritage and I want to be very clear, the ANC is not rotten. In parliament, in the provinces and in our municipalities, there are many honest and patriotic ANC members who sought public office to genuinely serve all the people of our country. These people live the values and principles upon which the ANC was founded. Unfortunately, the leader of our party no longer subscribes to those values and principles," she said. Khoza said she had been "complicit in propping up" Zuma by voting to keep him in power during seven prior votes of no confidence. "For seven votes of no confidence I was complicit in propping up a leader who has consistently put his own interests above those of the people whom he supposedly serves. As a ANC member I rationalised my votes believing a united ANC would eventually stand against the leader who has failed us. But that has not happened. "As a loyal ANC member, there is nothing simple about supporting tomorrow's vote of no confidence. Retribution will be swift and costly. Good ANC MPs who choose to do the right thing are likely to find themselves immediately recalled and cast out of the party. These are people with homes and children, with families to feed and school fees to pay. Their single act of defiance will have costly ramifications beyond just themselves and it is important South Africans recognise the magnitude of what we are asking these ANC MPs to do." She said the vote was not one against the ANC, but was a "vote against corruption". "Supporting the vote of no confidence is not a vote against the ANC. It is a vote against the kleptocracy President Jacob Zuma has actively developed during his tenure as the leader of the ANC and President of the country. It is a vote against corruption. It is a vote to protect the social security net that is critical to so many of our citizens and it is a vote in defense of our democracy. "Corruption widens the racial and economic divides in this country. The actions of a few have stolen our freedom by oppressing us with corruption and greed. Our people will not progress if ethics, hard work, talent and diligence are doomed to play second fiddle to cronyism. "Today I call on all MPs to vote with their conscience. The road will not be easy but we will walk it together. We must do the right thing and the right thing is to support tomorrow's vote of no confidence against President Jacob Zuma."