Afro-pop sensation Vusi Nongxo known as, Vusi Nova, has stolen the hearts of music fans with his romantic Xhosa ballads for close to a decade. The Port Elizabeth-born musician's love for soul music started at the tender age of 14 when he moved to Johannesburg. He told Youth Village he was always drawn to music. "I can't recall a time when I was never singing! My grandparents were in the church choir so on those merits, music just became something I fell into," he told the online publication in 2015. The late Brenda Fassie, Ringo Madlingozi and his home province, Eastern Cape, were the inspiration for his music. On Friday, the singer was hijacked and kidnapped outside his home in Melville after attending fellow musician Ntando Bangani's album launch on Thursday night. Spokesperson Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said Nova was dropped off in Soweto and managed to get a lift back to Johannesburg. Police have confirmed that an investigation was underway and a case of kidnapping and hijacking has been opened. At Nova's home on Friday, his personal assistant Delphine Klassen told the media he was still in the first phase of shock but he was physically okay. His white Range Rover taken during the incident is yet to be recovered. Here is what else you need to know about the Afro Pop singer... He is a big winner Nova broke into the music scene in 2009 and has received widespread recognition for his songs.  The contemporary music graduate won the South African Music Award (Sama) for the best Afro Pop Album for his self-titled album Vusi Nova. He has also been nominated for multiple Metro FM awards in categories such as Best Produced and Best Afro Pop album. His brother is Isindingo actor Sisa Hewana Many might not know but the singer's older brother is popular actor Sisa Hewana who plays the role of Skhumbuzo on Isidingo. Speaking to Metro's Fresh Breakfast radio show, the musician shared how people didn't know that Hewana was his brother. The siblings motivate each other, Nova said. The humble Nova claimed he was the "softie" growing up while Hewana was the bully because he was "tough". He has admitted to taking drugs Nova admitted he used an assortment of drugs to ease the pain after his mother died. It was unclear when this happened. He also opened up about his troubled past during an interview with Pearl Modiadie on SABC 1's Zaziwa. Nova disclosed that at one point in his life he blew an estimated R500,000 on drugs. He woke up one day and decided to ditch the drug life to pursue his first love of music. Meanwhile South Africans have taken to social media to express their distraught about Friday's hijacking.   Hayibo waking up to news of Vusi Nova's kidnapping is distressing  I'm praying for the safe return of Vusi Nova💔.  