Before 1994, customary marriages were hardly recognised by law in South Africa. A customary marriage is defined as one concluded in accordance with customary law, that is, customs traditionally observed among the indigenous African people of South Africa and which form part of the culture of those peoples. This is unlike a civil marriage, normally carried out by a licensed marriage officer, upon which the state will grant you legal recognition through a marriage certificate. The lack of clearly defined laws had adverse effects on, particularly, women within the union. They did not enjoy equal rights as their spouses. For example, they could not own property, negotiate or end their marriages or have legal custody of their children. "In a traditional marriage... you would be sitting there with your Xhosa traditional bride attire, considering yourself as married but you do not have a ring, and your name is not registered at Home Affairs," shared one woman in a national study by GroundUp on customary marriage. "Your partner could marry someone else at Home Affairs and now when you want to claim your rights, it's hard to do that because your marriage was not registered and there is someone else on record," the woman further explained. Complexities would also arise in cases where, for example, lobola was paid in half and the husband died. Was the wife legally entitled to the deceased's assets? Was their marriage, according to the eyes of the law and of extended family, a legally recognisable one? These complexities and more are what The Recognition of Customary Marriages Act, which came into effect in 2000, tried to address. The act came with a set of legal requirements that must be fulfilled for a customary marriage to be deemed valid. We've rounded up five of them: However, customary law still does not afford recognition to marriages concluded in terms of Hindu and Muslim rites. These unions remain invalid unless they are solemnized in terms of the Marriage Act 25 of 1961. The Women's Legal Centre is now involved in a legal process, seeking to give Muslim marriages legal status.