1. MzwaneIe Manyi may attempt to negotiate a better price from the Gupta family on the sale of ANN7 and The New Age. In an interview with HuffPost SA, Manyi said he is hoping to "knock down" the R450-million buying price for the media house, saying such a negotiation with the Gupta family is not "out of bounds". Watch the video here. 2. Manyi held a press conference in Midrand, live on air and broadcast by ANN7, in which he invited the media to inspect his company's documents. The conference was filled with a lot of madness. Here is what went down. 3. Social media was abuzz on Wednesday with #ThingsICanDoWithR14m in response to the university student who accidentally received R14 million in her student account. The student received the whopping amount 4 months ago and has reportedly spent around R1 million already. Here is what some South Africans said they would do should they hit the jackpot. 4. Shane Eagle is releasing his first album and has takes his role as a musician very seriously. Here is an exclusive interview with the trail blazing rapper. Watch here.  5. Dlamini-Zuma might be wholly uninspiring and uninvolved, but she has the institutional support of large parts of the ANC machinery and her campaign is guided by some of the smarter people in the party's upper echelons. She might just be unstoppable, writes Pieter du Toit. 6. So President Jacob Zuma's son, Edward, recently set out on a mission to put former finance minister Pravin Gordhan in his place -- literally. While Gordhan was giving his address at the third Gandhi memorial lecture in Pietermaritzburg, Edward disrupted the speech and called him a liar. Read more. 7. The lavish spending spree by a university student who accidentally received R14 million in her student account could be described as 'unjustified enrichment', according to a legal expert. "If a person receives money mistakenly transferred to their account and uses that money, knowing that the money is not due, that person is guilty of theft," said Aslam Moosajee, lawyer for Norton Rose Fulbright. Read more. 8. Babes Wodumo may have just secured her spot on this year's nomination list for the SABC Summer Song of the Year Competition following the release of her new track, "Gandaganda". Is SA sorted for a December anthem? Read more. 9. Income, education and location either open or shut the door to the Internet in South Africa today and this matters because the digital divide is just getting deeper. In the last 12 months, 21 million South Africans [38 percent] accessed the internet at least once, and 8.4 million [40 percent] did this for less than five hours a week, according to the July report Internet Access in South Africa 2017. Read more.