Stop what you're doing and circle December 2 on your calendar, because that's the Saturday Cassper Nyovest has chosen to fill up FNB Stadium. The rapper, whose real name is Refiloe Phoolo, revealed the date of the much-awaited concert during an interview on the Breakfast Club, the morning show on American radio station, iHeartRadio. During the interview, the 26-year-old spoke about the genesis of his career, his first album, fame and how Scoop Makhathini helped him return to his roots to find himself again. His ex-girlfriend Boity Thulo's name came up and also the song he's written for her, "I wasn't ready for you" which forms part of his latest album offering, "Thuto". In the song, he raps: "She just needed a man, you behaved like a boy. Manipulated her mind. Baby, I got you confused. It's high-time I admit, I wasn't ready for you." Speaking to his hosts about Thulo, Cassper said she was good to him. "She was a good girl and probably, somebody I would have married at that point if I was ready," he explained. Cassper said if he manages to fill up the 90,000 capacity stadium also known as Soccer City, he would have made history in staging the biggest hip hop concert in the world. In 2015, he filled up the 20,000 capacity Ticketpro Dome which was a first. He did not leave it there, in 2016, he filled up the Orlando Stadium in Soweto. Now following in his footsteps is multi-award winning gospel star and songwriter, Doctor Tumisang Makweya who come Sunday will attempt to fill up The Dome for a one-of-kind Gathering of Worshipers. Cassper said for this year's instalment of his Fill Up series, the theme would be African. "I'm building a set as far as the stage is concerned. I did the floating stage [At The Dome] and at Orlando we did a lot of 3D dimensions at the Orlando Stadium. This year I'm taking it home to Africa and it's going to be African themed," he told the team. If the reactions to the announcement are anything to go by, Cassper's name may as well be put down in the Guinness Book of World Records. I must go to #FillUpFNBStadium I missed the last two full ups  #FillUpFnbStadium , 2 December 2017 . Nicely after exams and sh*t, hope to see you all there. Let's get it! 🎉 pic.twitter.com/TEJaW4yMvU  Finally we have the date 🔥💃💃 #FillUpFNBStadium pic.twitter.com/961EhQFn2B  I believe it's possible WE ARE GOING TO #FillUpFNBStadium  2 December Ladies and Gents #FillUpFnbStadium pic.twitter.com/tW8sHrmMUc  If you missed it, here is Cassper's interview on The Breakfast Club:  Shine on Cass, tread on those uncharted waters!