The ACDP and COPE on Friday stood by the DA's decision to fire former deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani for various irregularities but stressed that relationship issues in the coalition needed to be ironed out. "We must ensure principles are followed before we can pave a way forward. We do not support any form of corruption," said Congress of the People's Ntuthuko Dumakude on Friday. The African Christian Democratic Party's Jo-Ann Downs said the issue was not with the United Democratic Movement but with Bobani. United Democratic Movement leader Bantu Holomisa threatened to leave the coalition if Bobani was not reinstated by August 28. Bobani was sacked after a controversial vote of no confidence in the city council on Thursday. It is believed Bobani was removed because he openly voted with the African National Congress in council meetings. DA leader Mmusi Maimane also accused Bobani of undermining the recent State of the City report by holding his own, separate event. He also alleged that two separate forensic reports conducted by independent auditing firms found serious prima-facie evidence of maladministration, fraud, and tender irregularities involving departments directly under Bobani. Downs said there had been long-term discussions on Bobani's conduct within the coalition. "A report was done and it became clear that Bobani never really agreed with the coalition. Corruption issues aside, he has on several occasions brokered against the coalition," Downs said. "The issue is not with the UDM. The reason we agreed on Bobani's motion of no confidence is because the UDM did not take action earlier." She hoped the UDM would not pull out of the coalition. However, Downs accused the DA of minimising the roles of the smaller parties like the ACDP and the COPE in the coalition. She said they were working towards rectifying this. Dumakude said the coalition partners would be heading into a meeting to discuss "a few things" brought about by the decorum of the meeting that resulted in Bobani being removed. Dumakude did not know when the meeting would take place.