1. The Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (OUTA) has laid charges of corruption and financial misconduct against Eskom's suspended Chief Financial Officer, Anoj Singh. The charges arise from the investigation by advocate Geoff Budlender who was appointed by Tokyo Sexwale, the then Chairman of the Trillian business group, to investigate the Gupta-related company over allegations of its use of inside political knowledge for commercial gain. Read more. 2. The much-anticipated meeting between the ANC and SACP to mend relationships and discuss matters including the March Cabinet reshuffle did not happen as scheduled on Monday. Nxumalo said secretariats from both alliance parties had been tasked with formulating a new agenda and the meeting would be reconvened later. Read more. 3. The intel and propaganda war has its single objective creating space for drastic executive action and the influencing of public perceptions in the closing stages of the ANC's leadership contest, which comes to a head from 16 December 2017 in Johannesburg. Read more. 4. Duracell has been ordered to remove its "misleading" claim that its product lasts "up to 10 times longer" than ordinary zinc batteries. "The claims to last 'up to 10 times longer' must be withdrawn," the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) said in its ruling. Read more. 5. The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal says it cannot take action against President Jacob Zuma's son Edward for heckling former finance minister Pravin Gordhan at a recent event, because it did not see the incident. Read more. 6.We think Babes Wodumo deserves a break from 2017 already. Fam, the misfortunes this artist has had to face are enough to make anyone want to go into hiding for the remainder of the year. Babes, real name Bongekile Simelane, took to Instagram on Sunday pleading with her fans to look out for a USB that was missing from the possession of West Ink Records. Read more. 7. South African celebrities certainly know how to flaunt their style, and with the money they rake in they must surely drive in style. Musicians such as Cassper Nyovest, real name Refiloe Phoolo, have never been afraid to spend lavishly to get the cars they want, even if it means two of the same. Read more. 8. In one of the most drastic anti-pollution rulings made on the planet, Kenya has made it illegal to own, produce, or sell any form of plastic bags, The Guardian reported.So serious are authorities that if you are found committing any plastic bag-related offence, you could face imprisonment, or a fine of over R500,000. Read more. 9. Rain from the worst storm to hit the Houston region in 50 years pummelled the area again on Monday as rescue efforts continued. With water levels rising and rain from Tropical Storm Harvey predicted to continue through Thursday, officials warned of a long and difficult recovery for residents of the country's fourth-largest city. Read more.