1. The numbers on Mzwanele Manyi's R450 million deal to buy the Guptas' The New Age newspaper and TV news channel ANN7 just don't add up, say the experts. "Fake news is a bad investment" said one. Read here. 2. ANC Women's League president, Bathabile Dlamini, is not fit to hold the position, according to womens' groups. "She is in the pocket of the men of the ANC and is playing into patriarchal norms herself," Marike Keller, policy development and advocacy co-ordinator at Sonke Gender Justice, told HuffPost SA. Read here. 3. Vodacom's technical glitch caused a lot more harm than just the loss of data and airtime, with matriculant Bongani Mthobeni losing his university application and former public protector Thuli Madonsela commenting. Read here.  4. Just why is data so expensive in South Africa compared to other countries? Here are some of the reasons -- but there could be hope on the horizon. Read here. 5. Aaah, sun, sea and and sand. Don't you wish you were somewhere else but your desk? DJ Tira and his wife posted these snaps from the party island of Ibiza and made us green with envy. Read here. 6. The Spectator should apologise to all South Africans for publishing an article in defence of apartheid and its architect, HF Verwoerd, according to academic Dr Jamie Miller. He forensically dissects the article and finds it's not only inaccurate, it's dangerous. Read here. 7. People in Marikana were not happy when presidential Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma called in to the site of the massacre as part of her campaign trail. In fact, they didn't let her even get out of the car and chased her away, accusing her of exploiting their pain. Read here.  8. Sometimes it's better to know when to stay silent. Here's seven high-profile South Africans who have landed in serious hot water by making outrageous comments on social media or elsewhere. Read here. 9. John Legend is returning to SA and peeps are really hoping he will bring Chrissy Teigen with. Her's where he will be playing. Read here.