Embattled ANC MP Derek Hanekom believes President Jacob Zuma is reluctant to appoint a judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture. "I think the country wants it [a judicial commission of inquiry], it is most unfortunate that it hasn't happened yet... But the public should be asking the question, why the delay?" he said. "There seems to be a refusal or reluctance to appoint such a commission of inquiry." The former tourism minister was speaking to the media after addressing a youth dialogue on state capture, hosted by the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation on Saturday. "We're observing things that are happening. What we are opposed to is the continuation of the corruption and the evidence of [alleged] corruption that we are seeing as the Gupta email leaks come in bits and pieces," he said. "[Former finance minister Mcebisi] Jonas said it is wrong to say we were unaware of these things. He is right in that as a ruling party and as government to can't say we were unaware. As a former member of Cabinet, most of us were quite unaware of the depth and extent of it." Hanekom said Cabinet members were aware of allegations of state capture and were "raising [their] voices". "It is true that the president has the power to appoint commissions. The public should expect nothing less than a commission that has credibility and independence," he said. "We need to know the truth...if certain heads have to roll as a result, than that has to be the case." Read: 5 Things You Should Know About Derek Hanekom After another failed motion of no confidence against Zuma this month, the ANC served Hanekom with a letter asking him to motivate why he should remain as chairperson of the party's disciplinary committee. Hanekom has until Monday to respond. Hanekom has been outspoken about corruption, state capture and Zuma. The Gupta family is allegedly embroiled in the state capture allegations as a result of their ties with Zuma and his affiliates. The revelations emerged from former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela's State of Capture report. This year, media outlets published troves of leaked emails between the Guptas and state officials, many detailing confidential and sensitive government and security information. 