Multi-award winning gospel singer and songwriter Dr Tumisang Makweya says he is ready to fill up the Ticketpro Dome for his Gathering of Worshippers concert come August 20. Speaking to HuffPost SA on Friday, Makweya, known affectionately as Dr Tumi, said he is ready to make history and prove to the world that gospel music lovers can also unite for a cause when called upon. "I decided to make this move out of faith and also because I totally believe that one can do anything with God. I don't believe in limitations. Part of the reason I decided to do this was to document how people from all walks of life can come together for one cause regardless of their race and ethnicity," he told HuffPost SA. Dr Tumi, a qualified medical doctor, follows in the footsteps of hip-hop star Cassper Nyovest (real name Refiloe Phoolo) who, in 2015, filled up the venue with the capacity to house 20,000 people. When asked how far he is from reaching his goal, Dr Tumi said "we'll definitely get there. By next week, in the days leading up to the event, we should have confirmation. We are selling between 400 and 500 tickets per day, so we are close to filling up The Dome [as it was previously known] for Jesus," he said. "If you put your mind to it you can achieve anything. All the shows we have had in various venues have been sold out so I have faith that people will come out to gather and worship with us," he said. But filling up The Dome is not the ultimate dream for the "Nothing Without You" hitmaker. Dr Tumi, who recently signed an international distribution deal with Universal Music, told HuffPost SA that his next move is a world tour. "Next for me is definitely bigger. We need to take Jesus to the nations out there. A world tour is definitely next on the list," he said. If you're still wondering why you should get your hands on a ticket, these popular songs by the good doctor should be reason enough: 1. Nothing Without You This song, from his gold-selling album "Love and Grace", became an anthem and a staple in many gospel fans' homes and hearts.  2. No Other God When his album "Love and Grace" came out, fans applauded Dr Tumi for writing and producing each song to "perfection". This song also became a hit with gospel fans.  3. You Are Here This song is from his "Heart of a King" album  Tickets for the Gathering of Worshippers concert are available through Tickepro and range from R180 to R500.