1. VUSI NOVA GETS HIJACKED - South Africa woke up on Friday to news that Afro-Pop singer Vusi Nova had been kidnapped in a hijacking from his Melville home. His hijackers stripped him off his clothes before later dropping him off in Soweto. Police say investigations are underway. Read here. 2. THEMBISA MDODA LEAVES OPW - Thembisa Mdoda is leaving the country's favourite wedding show, Our Perfect Wedding after hosting for three successful seasons. A nationwide search for her replacement is on and auditions start next week. Read here. 3. R60 CAN DO A LOT, BONANG - Bonang Matheba A.K.A Queen B launched an app this week which promises to lift the curtain on her life, but even the star's biggest fans were left confused -- As we all thought her tell-all book and reality show were both meant to give a glimpse into her life. Plus we watch her life on social media anyway. The R60 fee a month did not make things any better. Read here. These are more stories you shouldn't miss from the week that was: South Africa Is Fast Becoming A Global Domain For Pop Culture - South Africa is rapidly becoming a global domain and playground for international musicians. 2017 has already seen an influx of global superstars, and we still expect to see a number of international stars who are to make their maiden appearance in the motherland. Read Here Hilda And Oubaas Have Called It Quits And South Africans Are Hacked - Many screen couples have broken up, but none can compare to what could be the biggest split in South African television history. Septimus "Oubaas" Van Zyl (Pierre van Pletzen) broke up with Hilda de Kock (Annelise Weiland) in Thursday night's episode of 7de Laan and no one was never ready for it. Read Here 7 Things High-Profile South Africans Said On Social Media That Landed Them In Hot Water - South Africa as a democratic society allows its people to express themselves. Citizens can exercise their freedom of expression via social media or in any domain, as enshrined by our Constitution. But sometimes you also need to know when to stay quiet, as can be seen by this sorry list of public figures who landed in big trouble for their controversial comments. Read Here The HuffPost Weekly Review is a recap of the top three entertainment and lifestyle stories of the week that you cannot miss. The weekly roundup is released every Friday.