1. Is 'Mr Nice' Cyril Ramaphosa decisive enough to be the next president of South Africa? In the final part of our series on the ANC leadership race, we look at what those closest to Ramaphosa have to say about him. Read here. 2. The Guptas sold their media businesses ANN7 and the New Age newspaper to former government spokesman Mzwanele "Jimmy" Manyi for R450 million. That's one serious cash liquid guy, Manyi. This will give the Guptas more time in their busy schedule to focus on "clearing their name" of all those pesky state capture allegations, apparently. Read here.  3. U.S. president Donald Trump is seemingly becoming more and more isolated. Now it's his chief strategist and one-time fave Steve Bannon who is out of the White House. According to reports, Trump believed that Bannon was behind recent leaks to the press in what is increasingly becoming a political tale of Shakespearian proportions. Read here. 4. The ANC has a shameful history of protecting abusive men within its ranks and Mduduzi Manana is no different, writes Lisa Vetten. The chasm between what government says and what it does is no better illustrated than the selection of Manana to lead gender violence work on university campuses. Even women like Bathabile Dlamini and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma put politics first. Read here. 5. First Makhosi Khoza, now the knives are out for ANC MP Derek Hanekom. The ANC has given the ANC stalwart, who spent three years in jail fighting in the liberation movement, 10 days to give reasons why he should not be removed as chairperson of the party's disciplinary committee. It comes after tweets he posted on the eve of the most recent no-confidence vote in Zuma. Read here.  6. It's no holds barred on Thando Thabethe's new talk show, she is promising. TLC Africa says the show will encourage open and honest conversations, from body positivity and outrageous style to polygamy. Read here. 7. The government dealt with Grace Mugabe's assault case in a "hamfisted" way, according to legal expert Nicole Fritz. "[Diplomatic immunity] is not a grant of impunity to persons so they can come and engage in grievous assault and then be beyond the reach of the law." Zim's first lady was allowed to fly home with no charges. Read here.  8. The life of the Mugabe sons is a tale of "luxury, partying and over-indulgence" say those close to them. From being expelled at school to being evicted from their home in Sandton, they have been giving their parents a headache for many years. Read here. 9. Former Communications Minister Faith Muthambi tried to mislead Parliament, according to a report from Parliament's legal services. The Democratic Alliance wants Speaker Baleka Mbete to lay criminal charges against Muthambi and the others who have been found to have misled or lied to the ad hoc committee that investigated the SABC board. Read here.