Artist collaborative Jana + Koos have just created a free-to-download Google Docs folder, full of free original artworks that you can print and install in your home. "We made some art using public domain images and free softwares. You can download and use them for your walls, phone locks screens, your band poster, birthday cards or toilet door posters," Koos Groenewald said on Facebook today. Public Experiment No.1 #thefreeartproject We made some art using public domain images and free softwares. You can download and use them for your walls, phone lock screens, your band poster, birthday cards or toilet door posters. You can also make your own Free Art - follow the steps - www.janaandkoos.com/freeart #janaandkoos read article @bubblegumclubbb #liveonbubblegumclub A post shared by Jana and Koos (@janaandkoos) on Aug 16, 2017 at 1:04am PDT  The art collaborative are calling their new initiative #thefreeartproject -– a way to use some of the internet's open source software and free images to create one-of-a-kind pieces. Jana + Koos will also frame and ship the artwork you like to your home, "for a little handling fee, obvs.", if you would like. Printing some Free Art @wetink_design more and more janaandkoos.com/freeart #thefreeartproject A post shared by Jana and Koos (@janaandkoos) on Aug 7, 2017 at 4:13am PDT  "Giving away free art is obviously not viable [on its own] as one needs to make money to survive but it's a cool project. But seen from the perspective of free-ing the art and making it accessible to more people, it becomes viable and lives on beyond us in terms of helping to build on a culture of art creation and appreciation," Groenewald told Bubblegum Club. "It feels cool for us that perhaps someone whose barrier to starting an art collection is money, could own a nice big piece that they love. Even if it is their first piece that starts a collection – that would make us very happy. We're also happy to share our preferred printers and framers with anyone who needs help on that side. Mail us anytime."  You can check out all the artworks on their website (http://www.janaandkoos.studio/freeart) 