There's a new spotlight on women at this year's FNB Joburg Art Fair -- the biggest art event on the local calendar -- and some of your faves are getting their own shows. The announcement of the eight solo artists who will be featured was made on Tuesday at the swanky Four Seasons hotel in Westcliff, Johannesburg, where the ten year anniversary of the fair is being celebrated. Pioneering feminist artist Lady Skollie, who made headlines not so long ago for her letter responding to rapper Okamlumkoolkat's sexual asssault apology, is one of the exciting editions to this year's line-up of solo exhibitions. Skollie, who has built up a powerful online presence, said on twitter this week: "Stop texting me asking me where I am: It's 3 weeks before FNB Joburg Art Fair where the f**k you think I'm at?!" Skollie is joined by a list of some of the art world's biggest names. Toto Gallery will show the work of Israeli-born, South Africa-based artist Ilana Seati; Thenjiwe Niki Nkosi will be representing Mariane Ibrahim Gallery; Blank Projects will show work by Bronwyn Katz; Chemu Ng'ok from SMAC Gallery will present a solo body of work featuring new paintings, and Smith Studios will present five artists who have collaborated on ten sculptural works. SOLO PRESENTATIONS (v) Represented by blankprojects Bronwyn Katz graduated with a BFA from the Michaelis School of Art in 2015 and was awarded the Simon Gerson Prize. Katz's oeuvre incorporates sculpture, installation, video and performance. Her solo exhibition, Groenpunt was held at blank projects in 2016, and she has participated in numerous group exhibitions, including the 12th Dak'Art Biennale (Senegal, 2016), The Quite Violence of Dreams (Stevenson Gallery, Johannesburg, 2016), Figure and 3 881 days at blank projects (2016). Katz is a founding member of iQhiya, an 11-women artist collective which has performed across various spaces, including Greatmore Studios, the AVA Gallery, and Iziko South African National Gallery . . . You can expect to see her work 7-10 September 2017 at the Sandton Convention Centre, ticket link in the bio! #fnbjoburgartfair #art #southafrica #johannesburg #sandtonconventioncentre #artists #bronwynkatz #fnbjoburgartfair10years #FNBJAF2017 A post shared by FNB Joburg Art Fair (@fnbjoburgartfair) on Aug 14, 2017 at 7:54am PDT  The launch also revealed that art star William Kentridge's experimental art foundation, The Centre for the Less Good Idea, will headline this year's event with a series of films curated by some of the most exciting artists on the continent.  As part of the FOR ONCE programme IN CONVERSATION some thoughts on collaborative processes by Homi K. Bhabha & William Kentridge. Saturday 19 August at 6pm. Arts on Main. Maboneng. Booking essential An informal evening about walking and thinking and thinking about walking. This is part of an ongoing conversation between Homi and William in which they discuss the step and the burdened life. Homi K. Bhabha is the Anne F. Rothenberg Professor of English and American Literature and Language, and the Director of the Mahindra Humanities Center at Harvard University. He is one of the most important figures in contemporary post-colonial studies. William Kentridge is a draftsman, performer and filmmaker. Arguably South Africa's best known fine artist, Kentridge has enjoyed a central focus in his work of how apartheid values touched and bruised the lives of ordinary South African. Entrance is free but booking essential on www.lessgoodidea.com - seats will be held until 5 minutes before start. A post shared by The Centre (@lessgoodidea) on Aug 14, 2017 at 3:53am PDT  Robin Rhode was announced as the winner of the 2017 Featured Artist, saying at the launch: "It's amazing to have participated in the first Joburg Art Fair, and ten years later to again have the opportunity to participate again."    