1. Speaker Baleka Mbete took everyone by surprise when she announced the vote of no confidence in Jacob Zuma on Tuesday would be held by secret ballot. Even the journalists were eerily quiet. Read here. 2. Here's seven of the most striking things Mbete said about why she had decided to allow a secret vote. "The people of SA also look to Parliament for signals of hope," she said. Read here.  3. But the ANC says it will still defeat the motion of no confidence. It also rejected an online list of 95 ANC MPs, rumoured to be voting against Zuma, as "fake news". Read here. 4. Could Jacob Zuma really be gone by Tuesday night, asks Ferial Haffajee. Here's what analysts with close knowledge of the ANC parliamentary caucus think. Read here. 5. HuffPost SA spoke to editors about what they think will happen when the president faces his eighth motion of no confidence. Read here.  6. "You stand at the cusp of history where a momentous decision has to be made" wrote Wits vice-chancellor Adam Habib in an open letter to MPs. "You are now required to fulfil your oath of office to hold accountable a leader who has repeatedly failed to uphold his." Read here. 7. The motion to remove Zuma from office is the work of regime change agents attempting to undermine a democratically-elected president, says the ANCWL. It's all a plot of neo-liberalists supported by white supremacist media houses, apparently. Read here. 8. Deputy minister of higher education and training, Mduduzi Manana's, alleged assault of a woman in a Joburg nightclub was apparently motivated by her calling him gay. Social analysts tell us how the problem starts in boyhood. Read here.  9. The Manana incident shows us how government continues to pay lip service to doing something about abuse of women and children, writes Zimkhitha Mvandaba. By close of business on Monday, he still hadn't been arrested for example. "If indeed bringing perpetrators to book is a top priority for the ruling party, why has this minister not been suspended?" Read here.