1. Here's How Breast Cancer And The Loss Of Sexual Desire Intersect
As a South African woman, you can be sure of two things: one in three of you will be raped and about one in eight white women and 35 in every 100,000 black women will develop invasive breast cancer over the course of a lifetime. Read more. 2. Here's How Parents Can Ignite A Passion For Reading In Children Who Resist Books
Imagine for a moment what it must be like to be a child growing up at a time when technology seems to overrun just about every aspect of our lives. Smart TVs, smartphones, social media, 3D games, YouTube, Google... the list seems endless. 3. South Africa's Economy Simply Cannot Afford The Destructive ANC For Two More Years
President Jacob Zuma has survived yet another vote of no confidence, but don't despair, they say, because we may just be able to get rid of him some other way. There are a few looming court cases that may start the process, or maybe some political developments can eventually result in Zuma getting the boot, writes Dawie Roodt. 4. The ANC Will 'Rue The Day' It Failed To Get Rid Of President Zuma
So although it is now apparent that 26 ANC MPs broke party ranks and voted for the motion, indicating that there remain some strands of morality within the ruling party, the voters are likely to conclude that, despite some dissent, the ANC as a bloc chose to close ranks behind Zuma, writes Roger Southall. 5. The Utter Futility Of Women's Day 2017 While Men Like Minister Manana Go Unpunished
From April 1 to May 21 this year, 63 women were murdered in Gauteng alone, with 10 said to have been killed by their partners. The system -- from the courts to the Department of Social Development, through to the SAPS -- is inundated with matters involving the violation of women's rights. Read more. 6. President Zuma's Messy Victory May Be Better For Constitutional Stability
Whatever the spin, Zuma survives once more. A large majority of ANC members of the National Assembly support his continuation in power. We will never know who voted how. That's what a parliamentary secret ballot means, says Associate Professor of Politics at the University of the Witwatersrand, Daryl Glaser 7. Start Where You Are With What You Have To Turn Waste into Opportunity
I was recently reminded how travelling, for me, is more a state of mind than a destination. I used to think of travelling as visiting faraway countries where the culture was exotic and the language was foreign. In these unknown spaces, I would feel inspired by people who looked unlike me, signboards that I couldn't quite read and foods I hadn't tasted before. Read more. 