1. The UK's PR trade association has ruled Bell Pottinger broke its code of conduct for what the DA calls its "racially divisive" campaign on behalf of the Guptas in South Africa. All South Africans want now is for CEO James Henderson to resign. Read here. 2. HuffPost SA exclusively revealed that finance minister Malusi Gigaba plans to push out a R7.8 billion bailout for South African Airways -- without any consultation or assessment. The airline's financial situation is so dire there's no time, apparently. Read here. 3. How will justice look for Ahmed Timol so many years after his death at the John Vorster police station and why does it matter? Ferial Haffajee takes a look at the tragic sorry of his death, which reveals a "painful past of torture, detention and cover-ups oozing back into the national consciousness". 4. Salim Essop was the last person apart from police to see Ahmed Timol alive. He recounts the methods of torture and intimidation that were commonplace in the "truth room" of John Vorster. Read here.  5.When the Cape Flats trio of Felicity Kiran, Anray Amasure and Lauren-Lee Bock performed a parody version of Beyoncé's "Irreplaceable" in 2016, they had no idea they were on the verge of the big time. They have just signed an international deal with Next Music after a HuffPost SA article on the group was spotted in the UK. Read here. 6. To be honest, Cyril Ramaphosa's presidential campaign is looking a bit meh, writes our political hound Amil Umraw. "Remaining an ANC man while at the same time identifying himself as an alternative to the Zuma faction is seemingly becoming more difficult." Read here.  7. Can baring your bod really put Islam in bad light, asks Muslim TV presenter Saira Khan. She showed off her booty on social media in response to a preacher who said it was sinful for women to pluck their eyebrows. Read here. 8.Business Leadership SA's CEO Bonang Mohale says business still believes in South Africa, despite all the political shenanigans going on. "South Africa's future and our future as businesses are inseparable. We want the transformation so many in this country need so desperately," he says. Read here. 9. Malia Obama arrived at Harvard, causing a stir at how quickly she has grown up. Where have the years gone? Read here.