1. Ajay Gupta has for a full decade sat on the board of Brand South Africa, the body responsible for crafting a positive image of South Africa overseas. He was "extremely inactive" in this role especially after the 2013 Waterkloof scandal. Read here. 2. Entrepreneur Keratile Mashike says getting her unique business off the ground was tough. The 26-year-old repurposes old tyres and turns them into stylish furniture. Read here. 3. Is video footage of crimes captured on social media admissable as evidence in a court of law? Wits law professor Stephen Tuson says a video by itself is not admissible unless there is acceptable evidence demonstrating its reliability -- and this can be very hard to prove. Read here. 4. The first-ever Friday night season opener kicks off on Friday night in the English Premier League as Arsenal takes on Leicester City. With South Africa's Premier Soccer league returning next week, there are certain elements the local soccer clubs can pick up from England. Read here. 5. Who do you call when you become a victim of gender-based violence? The Women's Legal Centre, from August 12, will be welcoming statements from victims and survivors of violence who feel the state machinery has failed them. Read here. 6. Here's why you shouldn't miss gospel singer Tumisang Makwe's concert. He is close to filling The Ticketpro Dome with worshippers. Read here. 7. Actually there is no "tremendous agreement" among federal climate scientists that humans are to blame for accelerated global warming. Here are six comments the Trump team made about climate change that have no basis in reality. Read here. 8. The question of who will get to sit on the Kenya's infamous presidential throne is rumoured to be announced later on Friday, but officially authorities have until August 15 to make the announcement. The ornately carved chair was delivered in a velvet blanket. Read here 9. Crime has claimed the lives of some of South Africa's greatest talent including former Bafana Bafana goalkeeper and Orlando Pirates captain Senzo Meyiwa, radio DJ Mandla Hlatshwayo, singer Lucky Dube and actor Dumi Masilela. The thing about crime is that it hits when we least expect it, and it has a tendency to leave us feeling shattered. Read here.