Chrissy Teigen is known for her brutal honesty, especially when it comes to parenthood. In a recent interview with Yahoo Style, the model displayed her signature candor while discussing her experience as a working mom. Teigen and her husband, John Legend, have a 10-month-old daughter named Luna. In addition to raising her baby girl, Teigen still works as a model, co-hosts Spike TV’s “Lip Sync Battle,” and is developing her second cookbook. When asked how she “does it all,” the mom had a simple answer: “Having help.” “My mom lives with us. I have hair and makeup people,” Teigen said. “I’m not getting up and doing all this by myself. If I’m not being done for something, I’m not going anywhere. A lot of hands go into it. We have help. It’s important for people to know that.” She added, “I have the utmost respect for mothers and single mothers who go to work and come home and make dinner. I do all these things because I have help. Luna goes down at 6:30 and has a nurse watch her, and I can cook dinner.” Teigen’s honest comments are reminiscent of a “Today” show interview she did back in November. Discussing the pressure on new moms to lose weight, she explained that women should not hold themselves to the standards set by celebrities because famous people have the privilege of big (and often expensive) support systems. “Anyone in the public eye, we have all the help we could ever need to be able to shed everything,” she said. “So I think people get this jaded sensation that everybody’s losing [pregnancy weight] so quickly, but we just happen to be the ones who are out there.” Teigen added, “We have nutritionists, we have dietitians, we have trainers, we have our own schedules, we have nannies. We have people who make it possible for us to get back into shape. But nobody should feel like that’s normal, or like that’s realistic.” Other celebrity parents, like Victoria Beckham and Solange Knowles, have also been open about their support systems. Teigen savors every moment with her daughter. She told Yahoo that her perfect day includes “waking up with Luna, singing silly songs to her about poop.” She also loves to watch her daughter sleep. The model and her husband want to grow their family over time. Teigen has famously spoken about her experience with IVF and the fact that she and Legend have one frozen embryo left from the process. “Hopefully it works. We’ll see,” she said. “Either way, we’re going to try for another kid.”