Tomi Lahren has had her show, "Tomi," suspended by TheBlaze, according to The Daily Caller. Sources told the outlet that while the 24-year-old political commentator will be suspended for at least one week, she may not finish out the duration of her contract, which expires in September. Lahren's reported suspension comes after she incited backlash Friday as a guest on "The View" by calling anti-abortion conservatives "hypocrites" during her appearance and admitting she believed in a woman's right to an abortion. "I'm pro-choice," she said, "and here's why: I can't sit here and be a hypocrite and say I'm for limited government but I think that the government should decide what women should do with their bodies." Glenn Beck, founder of TheBlaze TV, made it clear on his talk-radio show Monday morning that he disapproved of her commentary. "It takes intellectual honesty and a willingness to actually think these things through and to do more than just read Twitter and Facebook to get your news and opinions," he said. The "intellectual honesty" critique stemmed from Beck's tweet at Lahren on Sunday night: Wait, libertarian views? Help me out on Trumpcare, stimulus, and executive orders. Trump is anything but libertarian. #intellectualhonesty https://t.co/jlt5sFvQMP Lahren had this to say on Monday morning: No one hunts small deer 🦌 this too shall pass. #mondaymotivation Twitter has had mixed feelings about the suspension news: Tomi Lahren suspended? pic.twitter.com/2nmUEzk1cB Tomi Lahren had her first good opinion and The Blaze suspended her for it https://t.co/jQSdv1aaR3 pic.twitter.com/vmHn24gd7T hahahahaha tomi lahren got suspended on the same day that Trump is getting investigated this is gonna maybe be a good day pic.twitter.com/zo6Hvj5lEu Tomi Lahren got suspended yay.. but she got suspended for believing in pro-choice.. which is weird @TomiLahren Sorry you were suspended for speaking your mind, but maybe be more careful about who you call snowflakes now. Lahren did not immediately respond to a Huffington Post request for comment.