Do you remember Libby and Pearl, the adorable toddler and pig who forged a special bond? Well, now their animal-loving family has two precious new members. The Bonnice family adopted two baby goats, Calvin and Hobbes. Libby's mom, photographer Lindsey Bonnice, told HuffPost that the goats are 5 weeks old and getting a lot of love from their humans. Calvin and Hobbes joined the Bonnice family when they were just 1 week old. "A friend told us that they had heard of a local farm who had a mom goat who had babies," Lindsey told The Huffington Post. "She was neglecting them and wouldn't feed them, so they were looking for someone to bottle feed them. So off we went to rescue these sweet boys!" The rural Pennsylvania family named the goats Calvin and Hobbes after one of their favorite comics "and because goats are silly and always getting them themselves into trouble like Calvin and Hobbes do!" Over the past month, Lindsey has been posting adorable Instagram photos and videos of the goats snuggling with now-4-year-old Libby and Lindsey's two sons, 8-year-old Noah and 1-year-old Finn. Everyone should cuddle a goat at some point in their life, it's so therapeutic! Head to the blog for more adorable baby goat pictures!(blog link in profile) #calvinandhobbesthegoats A post shared by Lindsey Bonnice (@livesweetphotography) on Mar 13, 2017 at 10:11am PDT "Noah is my big helper, he helps make the bottles and feed them, helps take them outside and loves playing with them," Lindsey explained, adding that Libby is their "little mama." "She gets their diapers for them, calls them 'her precious babies' and holds them all the time!" the mom said. "Whenever they wake up, she shouts, "Mama the babies are awake!" And every morning when she wakes up she says, 'Mama do you think the babies are up? We need to give them their bottles.' She is completely enamored and loves them to pieces!" Two diaper babies!!I hope you guys aren't sick of baby goat pics yet cause I have like a zillion more adorable ones!! A post shared by Lindsey Bonnice (@livesweetphotography) on Feb 28, 2017 at 2:53pm PST Meanwhile, Finn is rather unamused. "He tries to steal their bottles, and they try to steal his," said Lindsey. "Having all three of them in diapers and drinking bottles at the same time is like having triplets! I change about 20 diapers a day and make about 10 bottles or more!" At this point, the family has three cats, three dogs, two pigs, three rabbits, two baby goats, a hamster and a tortoise who live inside their home. Additionally, they have four goats, a sheep, chickens and ducks in the barnyard. "I love our growing little farm, it gives me life and brings lots of smiles and laughter every day!" said Lindsey. "My husband just said today as he was going outside, he opened the door and one of the goats was on the front porch and he said, 'I don't know if I'll ever get used to there being a goat on the front porch when I open the door!'" We're in baby goat heaven over here! Be sure to be watching our stories for lots of baby goat cuteness to help you get through your Monday! A post shared by Lindsey Bonnice (@livesweetphotography) on Feb 27, 2017 at 7:36am PST "There are goats on the front porch, pigs in the front yard, chickens running everywhere," she added. "It's how we live now, and I wouldn't have it any other way!" The mom and blogger, who has over 126,000 followers on Instagram, has received countless positive comments saying her photos and videos of the goats and children are brightening people's days. Lindsey said she's happy these images are spreading joy to others and bringing light into a sometimes very dark world. And she's glad Calvin and Hobbes have become part of the family. "Goats are really some of the sweetest animals," the mom said. "They are loving and cuddly and really bond with their owners. They are so fun to watch run and jump and play and are like joyful and naughty little toddlers. They're just happy little things and they make us laugh all day long!" Keep scrolling and visit Lindsey's Instagram for more adorable photos and videos of their family. Did you see that we announced the baby goats names on the blog?! Head over now to see what they are!! Also watch our stories for tons of goaty cuteness! A post shared by Lindsey Bonnice (@livesweetphotography) on Mar 2, 2017 at 4:48pm PST Guys we named the boys!! Thank you for all of your great name suggestions, it was so hard to choose! Head to the blog now to find out what names we chose!(blog link in profile) A post shared by Lindsey Bonnice (@livesweetphotography) on Mar 1, 2017 at 10:41am PST We have a pretty big announcement to make! We are so excited to introduce the newest members of our sweet family! We adopted these two baby goats today from a local farm because their mama was rejecting them. We decided to adopt and bottle feed them and give them a forever home here on our little farm! They're both boys and they need names. Tell us your favorite boy names below to help us name them!! A post shared by Lindsey Bonnice (@livesweetphotography) on Feb 26, 2017 at 2:51pm PST We had so much fun playing with our goaty boys outside today!! Hoping to announce their names on the blog tomorrow! A post shared by Lindsey Bonnice (@livesweetphotography) on Feb 28, 2017 at 7:47pm PST Some fun on our first full day with our new goat babies!! It's been a wild but joyful day! A post shared by Lindsey Bonnice (@livesweetphotography) on Feb 27, 2017 at 6:54pm PST Hi my name is Calvin and I think I'm a real baby. My mama has to hold me when I drink my bottle and I like to sit on her lap whenever she's on the couch. Chewing on her hair is my favorite and I wear diaper and follow her everywhere she goes. My mama keeps telling people they got pet goats but I'm not sure who shes talking about because it's very clear to me that I'm just another human baby in this house! #calvinandhobbesthegoats A post shared by Lindsey Bonnice (@livesweetphotography) on Mar 10, 2017 at 8:17pm PST We may be having the best time playing dress up with our new baby boys! This is Finns @purllamb outfit but Hobbes had to give it a try! A post shared by Lindsey Bonnice (@livesweetphotography) on Mar 3, 2017 at 1:35pm PST Sometimes when I don't have goats living in my house I forget how fun it is to have goats living in my house! But then when they move in and everyone gets adjusted they quickly become part of the family and are so fun loving and adorable! They're lots of work, sure but the return in fun, laughter and love is well worth it! #calvinandhobbesthegoats A post shared by Lindsey Bonnice (@livesweetphotography) on Mar 6, 2017 at 8:21pm PST So I may have put the baby goats in sweaters and taken them out to play in the snow! All I have to say is "You're Welcome!" #calvinandhobbesthegoats A post shared by Lindsey Bonnice (@livesweetphotography) on Mar 16, 2017 at 7:25pm PDT