I knew all the time spent reading articles about transfer rumours in football would serve me someday. A good deal is one which allows both negotiating parties to walk away feeling like they both won. A bad deal is usually one in which one party walks away aggrieved. And what about one that renders no apparent advantage to either side? This was my immediate thought when I read the Reuters story stating two senior party officials believe that President Jacob Zuma is thinking about stepping down next year, 12 months before his term is up, if he's allowed to sack Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan right now. This story about a deal for Zuma makes *no sense* whatsoever. The deal does not present any advantages for either of the sides! Here's why I don't think the deal makes sense:  So this is what I think may have happened, and it is something you see all the time in the British football press. A story will emerge, claiming that Player X has expressed great admiration for Arsenal FC, and would love to play for them someday. The rumour mill goes into overdrive, and the story in the public becomes "Player X wants to leave his club for Arsenal." How many times does this come true? Almost never. Six months later, you find out that the player has signed a new contract with his club, and the rumour about wanting to leave was leaked by his agent in order to strengthen his hand at the negotiation table. I think something similar may have happened here. Someone is clearly negotiating with Zuma, and they are getting nowhere. That person may have then called up Reuters and said: "Zuma is thinking about stepping down next year." They can then sit back and watch the reaction from the public, the markets and most importantly, party members. On Monday, they can then go to Number One and say, "This is an option with the least problems for you. See, people will accept it. It's not great, but they can live with it. You must consider it seriously." See what I mean about all those ridiculous transfer rumour articles? Of course, this still leaves South Africa with an unguarded Treasury. It's not a good deal for us at all. About