Eric Barnard Meubels in Pretoria has pulled its advertising from Jacaranda FM because they do not want to be associated with a station that "gets involved with politics and mix it with business". Manager and director of the popular furniture store, Marius Barnard, confirmed to HuffPost SA that the store informed the beleaguered radio station about its decision yesterday. "Comments made by that lady [Tumi Morake] are very racial and political... I cannot associate with a station that takes one side," Barnard said. "By taking away the advertising, we are saying enough is enough," Barnard said. Last week, comedian, actress and Jacaranda FM breakfast show co-host Tumi Morake made an analogy that upset many of the station's white listeners. Morake was having a conversation with her co-host, Martin Bester, which ended with her making an analogy about South Africa's transition to democracy. She said that little was done to get retribution for black people, and they were expected to treated equally to all other people after 1994. Morake then made an analogy to articulate her point. "It's like a child whose bicycle was taken forcefully away from him and then you say to the bully, 'no, no, no, share the bike together, don't be like that,'" Morake said. This angered many of Jacaranda FM's listeners and supporters. Barnard explained that the store had been advertising on Jacaranda FM since 1992/93. He said a combination of economic factors and the recent incident with Morake led to Eric Barnard Meubels severing ties with the radio station. "With the economy, advertising costs are becoming higher... we did not get any returns from Jacaranda in terms of customers." The furniture shop spent about R100,000 on advertising on the station monthly and Barnard said the store would be looking to advertise on other radio stations and platforms. Barnard took pains to point out that he had never been racist towards black people. "My children have black friends," he said. However, he said that black people should "stop saying we [white people] are to blame for their problems". Since the incident, a group of JacarandaFM listeners have started a Facebook page to boycott the station because of Morake's so-called "racist remarks". The "Boikot Jacaranda FM" Facebook page has already attracted almost 28,000 people who believe that the station did not handle the Tumi Morake saga appropriately.  Martin Bester's head also on the chopping block Promoters have cancelled Tumi Morake's Jacaranda FM breakfast show co-host Martin Bester's show at Elephant Bull Sports Bar in Lephalale because he is surrounded by "too much controversy". "We had to cancel the show due to negative hype by people... it has everything to do with Jacaranda FM," the bar's marketing manager Gerhardt Theron told HuffPost SA. Bester, who is also a singer, was due to perform at the bar on 29 September. However, Theron explained that the decision to scrap the performance was made because of requests by punters who did not want Bester to perform. "It's not us saying 'screw you, Martin Bester', it's the people," he said. Theron also explained that the bar neither supported or rejected what was said on the Jacaranda FM breakfast show.