1. How the mighty are brought low. Details of Bell Pottinger's racially divisive campaign for the Guptas in SA continue to be laid bare, this time in a report by Herbert Smith Freehills (HSF) which it seems the company was actually hoping would vindicate it. Journalists being targeted, a narrative around "economic apartheid" -- here are 11 findings. 2. HSF's findings offer a fascinating insight into what went down. But what does all the legal jargon actually mean? HuffPost's Editor at Large, Ferial Haffajee, interprets and decodes the findings. Read here. 3. Reaction to Deputy President Cyril Ramphosa's alleged affairs -- revealed in the Sunday Independent --with a huge harem of women have varied. Other SA politicians caught with their pants down haven't been quite so PR-savvy in responding as Ramaphosa. Here's some of the weirdest things they have said. 4. Do South Africans have the same moral objections to their politicians having affairs, as in the whiter than white U.S? If reaction on social media is anything to go by, it appears not. Read here. 5. Workers at the Gupta-owned VR Laser steel company are really worried their employers are about to "skip the country" with their money after they were failed to be paid on time. According to National Union of Metal Workers of SA (Numsa) shop steward Lucky Nuleya, things have gotten worse since the family's bank accounts were frozen. Read here. 6. That Will and Kate just keep on popping them out, with the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge expecting their third child. We really feel for Kate though. As with her previous two pregnancies, the Duchess is suffering from a rare form of acute morning sickness. Read here. 7. Fetal alcohol syndrome has become a massive crisis in SA. Out of 187 countries, a study found that South Africa has the highest prevalence rate of FASD, at 111 per 1,000 people. Here's everything you need to know. 8. It would seem Ntando Duma's daughter, Sbahle Mzizi, has hit the ground running -- at just two months old, she has already secured her first "job" as the face of a nappy brand. Sbahle has an Instagram with over 85,000 followers. Read here. 9. "The question I am posing is: Do our black men love themselves as BLACK MEN enough to love black women?" asks Siphumelele Chagwe. Read here.   