1. Sars boss Tom Moyane came out today guns blazing, further lambasting auditing firm KPMG. But things got interesting. Remember the "rogue unit" that KPMG has since retracted its report about? Well, Moyane insists it existed. It's all getting a little complicated... Read more here. 2. Our favourite Hollywood celebs got together for the annual Emmy Awards and boy, did they sizzle on the red carpet. They wowed us with some stunning creations and, of course, we made sure you don't have to miss out. Check it out here. 3. Food security is becoming a real problem and more and more people are going hungry throughout the world. Africa is struggling the most when it comes to combating hunger, with violent conflicts and climate-related shocks being the main drivers of food insecurity and malnutrition globally. Read more here. 4. So, some rumours went down that AKA had been cheating on his stunning GF Bonang Matheba. Could it be true, we all wondered. But the man himself was not impressed with the gossip. See what he had to say here. 5. Haters gonna hate. With a president that is known for his divisive rhetoric, it comes as no surprise that hate crimes and violence aimed at minorities is on the increase in the good ol' U.S. of A. This new, exclusive report shows the extent of this scourge. Read about it here. 6. The Zion Christian Church has been around since, like, forever and claims to have 16 million members. That's huge! We all recognise its signature badges and hats, but how much do you actually know about the ZCC? Here are 5 things you should know about one of Africa's biggest churches. 7. Remember when Esther Mahlangu adorned a BMW with her unique Ndebele designs? Well, now New Yorkers are getting their turn to bask in the bold colours and graphics of legendary artist, who has just been honoured with a mural dedicated to her work in the Big Apple. Read more here. 8. In what has to be the weirdest story of the day, some guy from Germany apparently wanted to... um... work on strengthening some muscles. He ended up getting his junk stuck in a weigh plate for three hours... Don't believe us? Check it out here. 9. Could it be that we are betraying our children? On our blogs page, we look at how, across South African townships, young people are grappling with what might loosely be termed their own struggle for freedom. Read it here.