Trade union Solidarity is continuing with its #TooFarTumi campaign and handed over a memorandum to Jacaranda FM on Friday. "We think [Tumi] Morake misused the platform... you can't say you are a DJ and then speak in your personal capacity on a radio station on a morning show with your name (sic), it does not work like that," Solidarity researcher Connie Mulder said. The comedian and actress has been deluged with hate mail following her analogies about the effects of apartheid on the Jacaranda FM breakfast show, where she is a co-host. Morake said "apartheid was about the oppression of black people" this past Tuesday. She said all race groups were just expected to unite after the demise of apartheid without any form of retribution. She then employed a bicycle analogy that was perceived to be offensive by many of the station's mostly white, Afrikaans-speaking listeners. "It's like a child whose bicycle was taken forcefully away from him and then you say to the bully, 'no, no, no, share the bike together, don't be like that,'" Morake said. Read the memorandum here While many have backed up Morake's comments -- which they believe to be a realistic representation of the repercussions of apartheid -- Solidarity, which draws its members mainly from Afrikaans people, wants the station to further "admit the massive outrage [it has] caused" and apologise to listeners who were "offended". It also wants "necessary steps" to be taken against Morake. The trade union wants these steps to be taken, and it wants to examine more soundclips from the show to add context to why Morake had made the comments. It will then decide whether the matter should be escalated to the Broadcasting Complaints Commission of SA (BCCSA). "We sent them a memorandum, it depends on their action now, so we're keeping that option open [BCCSA]. But we would like to resolve it before involving third parties," Mulder said. Solidarity also wants to be part of an open dialogue with the station where issues around race will be discussed; however, it does not want to use the station's platforms. "We are asking for an open discussion in a more structured way about these issues. "Thus far, from Jacaranda's side, we have heard a monologue, we have been told what to think and the other [side] is not represented." Many Jacaranda FM listeners have called for the station to be boycotted after the incident and called for Morake to be axed. But Solidarity made it clear that it was not calling for any sort of boycott against the station. "We are not boycotting Jacaranda; we are saying... people are upset [and] they need to be heard. We are asking Jacaranda to take remedial action... to prevent the misuse and abuse of the platform," Mulder said.