1. U.S. President Donald Trump believes climate change is about as scary as Father Christmas coming at you with a water pistol. But is it? HuffPost went all the way to Antarctica to witness the effects of climate change first-hand and came back with some scary, thought-provoking findings. Read Here. 2. In an exclusive interview with HuffPost SA, presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma suggested she would likely have allegations against her ex, and our current president, investigated should she ever become president herself. She also said she would advocate for free education. Ultimately, December will tell. Read Here. 3. Do you live anywhere near Fochville in North West? Then make sure you stay indoors, coz hungry lions are out to get you, or anything that moves, really. Five lions appear to have escaped from somewhere (no one knows), and the hunt is on. Not sure who's hunting whom, though. Read Here. 4. Kevin Anderson has done his country proud and knocked a few past Rafael Nadal. But who can be prouder than one's own mum? Kev's family is beaming with joy and mum Barbara told us all about it. Read Here. 5. Ride-service giant Uber has responded to violence against its drivers by drawing up a petition for it to stop. But customers and drivers are having none of that and demand real action. As smouldering carcasses of Uber vehicles continue to line our streets, the question remains -- what is the company going to do? Read Here. 6. Are you a tech junkie? Waiting anxiously to see what Apple will reveal next, while just about everyone reckons the Samsung Galaxy S8 is just, like, the best thing ever? Wait no more. In a major leak, a lot of the features of the new handset, as well as the new Apple Watch have been revealed. Read Here. 7. Zimbabwe's First Lady Grace Mugabe is not the extension chord-wielding maniac she is made out to be. No, claims Mugabe. She was apparently attacked by an intoxicated Gabriella Engels who came at her with a knife. The plot thickens, as they say. Read Here. 8. Our favourite local comedian and host of "The Daily Show" has added yet another accolade to his mantlepiece. There is just no stopping Trevor Noah, it seems! Noah walked away with an Emmy Award for a behind-the-scenes look of what goes on at his show, which was published on YouTube. Nice one! Read Here. 9. The global trend of declining democratic values has been rapidly increasing. Botswana has not been immune to this trend. The country's political landscape is at its most implosive state in perhaps the country's entire 50-year democratic history. Political parties are growing more unstable, Parliament has grown more dramatic and less efficient, and cases of corruption are growing. Read Here.