The Nintendo Switch has finally arrived in South Africa. The Nintendo Switch Pop Up Zone, which was held at Sandton on Thursday, was attended by various celebrity gamers including Afrikaans hip-hop artist Jack Parrow, Metro FM's DJ Fresh and 2015 "SA's Got Talent" winner DJ Arch Junior. Now you might be wondering what the fuss is about with the new Nintendo Switch and we got a loan of it for a whole month. We reckon it's the magnum opus of console world, a three-in-one delight, and here's why. 1. Handheld Switch is just the start   Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements.
            Learn more The Switch is one of the world's most diverse and versatile consoles of this generation. The first form of gaming is playing the Switch in handheld mode. This is when you can play the Switch wherever you are, regardless of a TV connection. This allows for gamer-mobility and the prospect of playing whenever and wherever. 2. TV mode   The second feature of the Switch allows gamers to switch from handheld to TV mode gaming. This is done thanks to the Nintendo box which, when connected with an HDMI cable, allows you to play all the games you want on the big screen. You simply remove the left and right motion controllers and connect the controller-less tablet into the Nintendo box and it will reflect instantly on the TV. 3. Wireless co-op switch   The final mode, and probably the most exciting one, is the dual wireless co-op which allows you to use the motion sensor controllers similar to that of its predecessor, the Nintendo Wii.   The Nintendo's magnum opus lies in its ability to play the console in three different forms on three different domains. Whether you're on the couch or on the move, the Nintendo Switch ensures that you're always ready to play -- anytime, anywhere and with anyone. Here's what we think This new gaming console by Nintendo brings about exciting innovations to the gaming world. The 'creme de la creme' of the console comes with a three mode switch which allows you to play anywhere and at any time. The introduction of EA Sports franchise FIFA 18 has been added to the Nintendo Switch gaming catalogue and it shows how Nintendo wants to break the barriers and battle it out with Sony's PlayStation and Microsoft's Xbox   The addition of FIFA 18 to the Nintendo gaming catalogue changes the game and has put them in the driver's seat in terms of reaching out to new audiences but having the household game which can draw gamers into trying new things. There are certain elements where the Switch does fall short, the game is ultimately for the more juniors players, with the veteran gamers preferring the Xbox and the PS. "I enjoy the switch, but I cannot play it for more than one hour unless it is Fifa. It is a fun console for a social time but ultimately when you are playing alone, you will get bored and the content of the games is better suited for junior gamers," said Pontsho.  Share this slide:  