President Jacob Zuma's son Duduzane says he is glad he met the Guptas and has denied being 'corrupt' in an interview with the BBC. Duduzane denies claims by former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas that he was offered a bribe by the Guptas to become finance minister in the president's presence, and says there is nothing untoward with his relationship with the family.  Duduzane was asked why the Guptas showed interest in him in the first place. "I don't think they wanted anything from me. They liked me. As I liked them. I think I'm a likeable guy...There's nothing untoward about it. There's no unpacking the relationship and what was in it for them, what was in it for me. It was just a meeting of minds - they understood me, I understood them." He said the visit where Jonas was allegedly offered the bribe was merely arranged in order to "sort out certain issues", and no bribe was discussed. "It wasn't a visit per se, it was a meeting that was arranged from my side to sort out certain issues that had nothing to do with the Guptas or any other related people." Zuma also issued flat denials about having property in Dubai, despite evidenceto the contrary contained in the GuptaLeaks. At no point did the BBC present Zuma with the documentary evidence contained in the leaked Gupta emails which shows the opposite of what he told the interviewed. "Firstly, I'm on business here. Secondly, Dubai is a wonderful place and I'm you would agree. Thirdly, I do not have a property in Dubai. I do not own an apartment in the Burj Khalifa." He denied that his father, Jacob Zuma, owns property in Dubai and said the Guptas had not bought property on his behalf. The BBC asked: "But there's no property under a company that is linked to you or linked to the Guptas perhaps on your behalf? I just want to clarify that because that has been in the media for many weeks now." Zuma said: "I do not own any property. My father does not own any property in this beautiful country - or beautiful city, should I say. And as far as I'm concerned, I mean, the Guptas have three brothers, I'm not sure if there are any other Guptas in this wonderful place but none of us own any properties."