MIRAMAR, Fla. Hurricane Irma lost steam as it b arged toward northern Florida early Monday,&nbsp;weakening to a&nbsp;Category 1 storm&nbsp;after battering the southern part of the state a day earlier. The storm, which shattered weather records as it hammered the Caribbean last week, could be downgraded again to a tropical storm later Monday morning as it heads northwest toward Georgia, the National Hurricane Center said. The NHC predicted that Irma, which lashed the Tampa area overnight with winds of up to 86 mph, would become a tropical depression by Tuesday. Irma first made landfall&nbsp;in the Lower Florida Keys a little after 9 a.m. on Sunday, bringing ferocious winds and intense rainfall, and leaving&nbsp;millions of people&nbsp;without power.&nbsp;The storm then headed for Florida&rsquo;s southwestern coast, making landfall again at 3:35 p.m. on Marco Island and weakening to a Category 2 shortly thereafter.&nbsp;&nbsp;Officials reported four storm-related deaths and urged Floridians to stay off the roads. The sheriff&rsquo;s office for Monroe County, which includes the Florida Keys, said on Saturday &nbsp;that one man had died in a car crash during the storm. Separately, a Florida sheriff&rsquo;s deputy was helping supply an evacuation shelter in Hardee County when the vehicle she was driving crashed into one driven by a state prison employee, killing them both. Most South Florida streets were eerily empty as authorities warned residents not to venture outside. Nearly 7 million people from multiple states in the storm&rsquo;s path were told to evacuate their homes, according to The Associated Press . In Miami, streets and beaches were deserted. Forecasts originally said the storm would hit the city directly, but Irma took a westward turn. Miami still experienced life-threatening winds that toppled trees, traffic signs and two construction cranes. Images and videos posted to social media showed parts of the city&rsquo;s downtown streets submerged in water. In Miramar, Florida, about 25 miles northwest of Miami, winds and precipitation strengthened throughout Sunday morning. Ponds in the area had expanded beyond their usual borders, creating small rivers and streams that threatened to breach major roads.&nbsp;Palm trees nearly five stories high swayed unnaturally in the fierce winds, while smaller trees were chipped or near-shattered.&nbsp;The wind blew down highway signs that landed at least 100 feet from where they started.&nbsp;By noon, meteorologists were recording 100 mph wind gusts in Broward County, which includes Miramar.&nbsp;&ldquo;It&rsquo;s like being in the car wash,&rdquo; HuffPost reporter Travis Waldron said. Miramar and many other areas in Florida were virtual ghost towns over the weekend, with stores and restaurants closed and no gasoline available at stations. Shelters &nbsp;were packed with people seeking safety. Families who sought refuge in hotels sat in the lobbies playing games with their children to keep their minds off what might be happening to their homes. Meanwhile, residents in the Caribbean have begun the slow and painful process of rebuilding their lives after Irma devastated the region last week, leaving at least 28 people dead and almost completely destroying some islands.Travis Waldron, David Lohr and Sebastian Murdock contributed reporting from Florida. Alana Horowitz, Lydia O&rsquo;Connor, Hayley Miller, Hilary Hanson, Carla Herreria, Nick Robins-Early, Peter Finocchiaro and Lee Moran also contributed to this report. Read more updates about Hurricane Irma: