1. GANDA GANDA -- Babes Wodumo's "Ganda Ganda" may just be the answer to our December anthem needs, but it didn't drop quietly. A memory stick with the unmastered version of the song, that Wodumo said went missing, was in fact just a marketing stunt to promote the track. It looks like it worked. Read here. 2. SPRING-TIME STRUGGLES -- Spring has finally sprung, but it is not necessarily breezy for everyone, including some women who are well-endowed. We've rounded up seven things women with an ample chest know to be true about spring. Safe to say, the struggle is real. Read here. 3. FRIENDSHIP FRIDAYS -- DJ Zinhle's and Pearl Thusi's matching outfits had fans revising their own friendship goals. The stunning pictures had fans snapping their own matching ensembles. Visit here for some of the best 'entries' to the #DJZinhlePearlThusi challenge. These are more lifestyle and entertainment stories from the week that was: WSU'S OVERNIGHT MULTIMILLIONAIRE -- Social media was abuzz on Wednesday with #ThingsICanDoWithR14m in response to the university student who accidentally received R14 million in her student account. The student received the whopping amount four months ago and has reportedly spent almost R1 million. Here is what some South Africans said they would do should they hit the jackpot.

LOCAL IS LEKKER -- Shane Eagle is releasing his first album and has takes his role as a musician seriously. Here is an exclusive interview with the trailblazing rapper. Watch here.

SOCIAL MEDIA AND MENTAL HEALTH -- Your Instagram posts can be pretty accurate clues about your state of mind, according to a new study. Prefer certain colours, or not like too many faces in one post? You could be depressed. Read here.

THE LEGALITIES OF TRADITIONAL WEDDINGS -- The law says you are not automatically husband and wife just because lobola has been paid. There are a host of other requirements that must be fulfilled for a customary marriage to be deemed valid. Read about it here. ENHLE MBALI'S WEDDING DRESS -- Actress and media personality Enhle Mbali Maphumulo may have just started a new trend by attending the inaugural DStv Mzansi Viewers' Choice Awards in her wedding dress. Peeps in social media were happy. Read here.