1. HuffPost SA editor-at-large Ferial Haffajee observed first hand how Bell Pottinger became a "practitioner of dark arts", especially across developing countries. That was until they reached South Africa, where a robust media and a cottage industry of internet sleuths quickly laid bare their "neocolonial" campaign. Read here. 2. Being booted out of the PR trade body -- whose head describes something "rotten" at the heart of the company -- and torn apart in a legal report for its "racially divisive" work for the Guptas are not enough. Bell Pottinger is still trying to defend itself, saying it disputes the Public Relations and Communications Association (PRCA) ruling. Whatevs. Read here. 3. Bell Pottinger became the "champion of dirty tricks" and deserved everything they got, says veteran spin doctor Chris Vick. He thinks the company is dead as a Dodo and should go home. But not before disclosing how they were briefed to work with political associations, and who they worked with. Read here.  4. Media personality and businesswoman Minnie Dlamini was giving us serious FOMO by living the good life in Paris for her bachelorette. She was in the city of love ahead of her white wedding to Quinton Jones on September 16. Read here. 5. Proceedings against President Jacob Zuma and National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete are being seen by some as a last resort for opposition parties to remove the president. Here's everything you need to know about the case, which started today and could end in impeachment proceedings.  6. HuffPost asked four experts one seriously scary question: Will it be North Korea or Donald Trump that starts a nuclear war? The main takeaway? No one will choose to go to war, but that doesn't mean it couldn't happen accidentally. Oh, that makes us feel so much better. NOT. Read here. 7. South Africa may be out of a technical recession, but all some peeps on social media know is that they are still broke. More than 9.3 million people still can't get a job, so it's a bit early to be bringing out the party hats. Read here. 8. On hearing of Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa's infidelities, Jeanette Buis' thoughts immediately turned to his wife, the "strong, confident and stylish Dr Tshepo Motsepe... Now it turns out that in his personal life, he has disrespected at least two women: his wife and his mistress", she writes. 9. Tazz and Zettie are our real-life heroes. These marmoset monkeys saved their owner's life by scaring off intruders who entered an Mpumalanga woman's home and attacked her. They caused such a racket that the thugs ran off. Read here.