Jacaranda FM listeners think they are entitled to be 'openly racist' and that the radio station was created for them, the EFF in Gauteng said. "Jacaranda FM is Afrikaans and white, all of [its listeners] suffer from [a] laager mentality," acting chairperson of the EFF in Gauteng, Mandisa Mashigo told HuffPost SA. She said comedian Tumi Morake was not at fault for making an analogy that has had many white people calling her racist. "[The listeners] are saying you should not be working at the station, it is our station," said Mashigo. She stressed that her reasoning was based on the idea that black people were "not capable of being racist". On Tuesday, speaking on Jacaranda FM's breakfast show, which she co-hosts with Martin Bester, Morake said all race groups were just expected to unite after the demise of apartheid without any form of retribution. "It's like a child whose bicycle was taken forcefully away from him and then you say to the bully, 'no, no, no, share the bike together, don't be like that,'" Morake said. According to Mashigo, listeners are telling Morake to "behave yourself or shift out". Hands off Tumi vs Tumi must go There have been mixed reactions about Morake's comments on social media. While some -- especially white people -- have said her comments were unacceptable, others are saying, "Hands off Tumi". ...pro-white means anti-black to most black s'africans...how about white league forum (wlf) or how does white first land first(wflf) sound?  Tumi..you are a stunning woman....there are human being pulling eberything out of context......doen so voort  She was being racist by painting a whole group of people with one brush. An apology would be the right thing to do.  So what did @tumi_morake say that was offensive or racist?
The bicycle analogy seems pretty accurate to me.  @tumi_morake we are on the lookout for your bicycle!! Heehee!!! Laugh a little!! pic.twitter.com/MWVepHye23  are you saying @tumi_morake is bad news for talking about what this country has experienced? Badness for what exactly  No, it is not a fact. Once again, please educate yourself on history before commenting. Tbis is not a land issue but a racist issue.  Minority-rights organisation AfriForum will no longer pursue a complaint against Jacaranda FM breakfast show co-host Tumi Morake. Ernst Roets, AfriForum's deputy CEO, confirmed this to HuffPost SA on Thursday. This is an about-turn after it on Wednesday threatened to report Morake to the Broadcasting Complaints Commission of SA (BCCSA) for what it described as "racist" comments. The commission has however confirmed that there are individuals who have laid complaints against Morake, the number is still however unknown.