Award-winning Afro-pop singer Ntando Bangani says his new album "Mayibuye" is a celebration of love and all things African. Speaking to HuffPost SA following the official launch, Bangani said his sound hadn't changed and that fans could expect a similar sound to what they'd come to know and love him for. The album, which also features Bangani's friend, Vusi Nova, is Bangani's seventh and has 15 tracks. The "Nguwe" hitmaker said pacing his album releases was a strategy for him to still be relevant 15 years from now, adding: "I don't succumb to the pressure of making music for the sake of entries to awards shows." Artists need to have released music within certain periods in the year before being considered eligible for nominations for awards. "I also don't chase trends. I am loyal to what makes me the Ntando that people have come to know and love over the years. I've invested a lot of time in making music the way I want. I've realised that making music for awards shows is not what I want to do. Some years I prefer to rather skip entry because I believe a year is simply not enough for the type of music I do," he said. Thank you Bloemfontein   Bangani said he had forged strong relations with fellow musicians in the Afro-pop genre.
"I'm good friends with all of them. I'm cool with Ringo Madlingozi, Vusi Nova, Sands, Bekezela, as well as a new group, 047, from Mthatha. Actually, there's no one within the genre I would say I have issues with -- it's all love when we get together," he said. What a great night  Bangani said his future looked very musical. "There's no stopping now. I grew up watching the legendary Ray Phiri and I was inspired by how he just went on and on. My wish is to sing until I can't sing any more. So, I'd say the future looks bright." The first time I saw a live performance I was 7yrs old and it was this great man,I thank you for the inspiration. Lala ngoxolo Ta Ray.  The album is available at all music stores throughout the country, as well as on online music platforms. 