1. COSATU GUNNING FOR ZUMA -- Cosatu has again demanded President Jacob Zuma vacate office. The trade union federation reckons he is the "most polarising figure in South Africa" of the last decade and will march against him across city centres nationwide on September 27. Meanwhile, opposition parties in Parliament appear also to have run out of patience with the president. Read here and here. 2. SINGH FACING THE MUSIC -- Corruption watchdog OUTA laid charges of corruption and financial misconduct against Eskom's suspended Chief Financial Officer, Anoj Singh, on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Minister Lynne Brown gave the power utility until Friday to explain its relationship with Trillian. 3. WSU STUDENT'S R14M BONANZA -- Overnight, millionaire student Sibongile Mani's lavish spending spree came to a grinding halt. "Jealous" political opponents at Walter Sisulu University reportedly ratted out the student who reportedly spent over R800,000 of money meant for student grants in just 73 days. Experts say she will definitely have to pay it all back. Read here and here. More top news and politics stories you can't miss from the week that was: 1. UNSTOPPABLE NDZ -- Dlamini-Zuma might be wholly uninspiring and uninvolved, but she has the institutional support of large parts of the ANC machinery and her campaign is guided by some of the smarter people in the party's upper echelons. She might just be unstoppable, writes Pieter du Toit. 2. STATE CAPTURE INQUIRY -- Embattled ANC MP Derek Hanekom, under disciplinary measures by the ruling party, questions why President Zuma seems so reluctant to appoint an inquiry into state capture. "As a former member of Cabinet, most of us were quite unaware of the depth and extent of it [state capture]." Read here. 2. GUPTA'S R450M PRICE TAG --  MzwaneIe Manyi may attempt to negotiate a better price from the Gupta family on the sale of ANN7 and The New Age. In an interview with HuffPost SA, Manyi said he is hoping to "knock down" the R450-million buying price for the media house, saying such a negotiation with the Gupta family is not "out of bounds". Watch the video here. Meanwhile, Manyi's live press conference on ANN7 to clear his name was a spectacle par excellence and rather short on substance. Read here. 3. 'YOUR FRIEND MANDELA' -- Robert Mugabe wants to know why whites still hold so much power in South Africa. Speaking at the national shrine during the burial of Moudy Muzenda and George Rutanhire over the weekend, Mugabe said: "I asked one ANC minister how come the whites have been left with so much power, and he said it was because of your friend Mandela. That was an ANC minister who was saying that..." Read here. 4. SORRY FOR WHAT? -- "Cheap, petty and actually silly" is how Education Minister Angie Motshekga described the ANCWL after it accused her of organising events under its banner. "Is this what the ANCWL has become under the current leadership?," she asked. Read here. 5. PANTS-GATE -- It's been called Pants-gate. Well, by us at HuffPost anyway. Pupils at Hoerskool Pretoria West boycotted classes to protest not being allowed to wear skinny pants. Now even Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi has got involved and he fears such garments will affect "discipline, control and management" and may even be a security risk. Read here. 6. (STILL) NO TO E-TOLLS -- Sanral is trying to address the massive financial flop of the e-tolls system in Gauteng with an amended bill in Parliament about how such schemes will be launched in future. It aims to address peoples' concerns. But how it will address the number one concern -- that people, er, don't want to pay (R6 billion in unpaid tolls in Gauteng so far) remains to be seen. Read here. The HuffPost Weekly Review is a recap of the top stories of the week that you cannot miss. The weekly roundup is released every Friday.