Twitter users are up in arms over Eric Barnard Meubels pulling its advertising from Jacaranda FM following presenter Tumi Morake's comments about the repercussions of apartheid. The director and manager of the furniture shop, Marius Barnard, told HuffPost SA the station had become embroiled in political issues that it did not wish to be associated with. "Comments made by that lady [Tumi Morake] are very racial and political... I cannot associate with a station that takes one side," Barnard said. "By taking away the advertising, we are saying enough is enough," Barnard said. The furniture shop had spent about R100,000 per month on advertising on the station. Barnard took pains to point out that he had never been racist towards black people. "My children have black friends," he said. However, he said that black people should "stop saying we [white people] are to blame for their problems". Many social media users were outraged by Barnard's comments and some have called for a boycott against the shop.   Tell everyone you know from PTA to boycott buying any furniture from @ericbarnardfurn RT for awareness #TumiMorake https://t.co/U7Dys3tQAI  @ericbarnardfurn says blk ppl r da prob, den try say 'we have blk friends'. twitter must shw dem boycot #TumiMorake https://t.co/SYal6bUjhZ     Morake was having a conversation with her co-host, Martin Bester, last week, which ended with her making an analogy about South Africa's transition to democracy. "It's like a child whose bicycle was taken forcefully away from him and then you say to the bully, 'no, no, no, share the bike together, don't be like that,'" Morake said. She has since made it clear there is no reason for her to withdraw or apologise for her views. 'If you are saying [you are] not a bully, why is your first response to label me and attack me, instead of saying, 'Where are you going with this thing?'" she said. The comedian went on to express her interest in Afrikaans culture. Morake said it was, however, difficult to express her love for it, as she felt she was being attacked by Afrikaans people. "I am obsessed with Afrikaans culture... but it is very hard when it is antagonistic," she said. Morake was speaking to Jacaranda FM drive-time host Rian van Heerden who facilitated an on-air conversation between the comedian and AfriForum's CEO Kallie Kriel in a bid to mend the relationship between the two parties. At the time, AfriForum was contemplating taking Morake to the Broadcasting Complaints Commission but has since decided otherwise. Meanwhile, #TooFarTumi campaigners have given Jacaranda FM management until the end of the day (Tuesday) to respond to trade union Solidarity's memorandum about Morake's alleged racist comments. 