ANALYSIS SA Revenue Service (SARS) boss Tom Moyane's breathtaking press conference in Pretoria on Monday illustrated exactly how much trouble this country is in. The SARS commissioner not only doubled down on his sworn contention that the taxman's now-defunct High-Risk Investigations Unit (HRIU) was "rogue", but he publicly restated his intention to rubbish anybody who dared to challenge this well-established narrative. Moyane told the media he was satisfied that KPMG's findings about the so-called "rogue unit" were above board and that he would not be swayed from its findings. This after KPMG issued a long and confusing statement on Friday seemingly disavowing the report. It is now, however, unclear which parts KPMG believes still stands and which parts must be scuppered. When asked whether he agreed that KPMG's statement meant it had retracted the whole of the report, KMPG spokesperson Nqubeko Sibiya replied: "I cannot agree with that." When asked whether it was only the parts of the report referencing the "rogue unit", he said: "I cannot confirm or deny it. Please refer this question to SARS." The damage wrought on SARS since the Sunday Times' first publication of the "rogue unit" stories in October 2014 is widely known. These reports were printed shortly after President Jacob Zuma appointed Moyane to SARS in September 2014 and led to the dissolution of the HRIU, the almost immediate resignation of a number of senior officials and, by the beginning of 2016, led to the departure of more than 55 group executives and other senior staff members. Since then SARS has recorded a tax revenue shortage of R28-billion, its tax refund payments have come under the scrutiny of the tax ombudsman and tax compliance has taken a nosedive. And, there seems to be no appetite whatsoever by anybody in authority to get to the bottom of the disemboweling of SARS. Parliament's standing committee on finance, led by Yunus Carrim (ANC), has never sunk its teeth into the matter, while there has been no inclination by Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, appointed after Zuma fired Pravin Gordhan, to sort out the hot mess at SARS HQ in Brooklyn, Pretoria. Moyane clearly needs to keep the narrative of the rogue unit alive. This enables him to discredit Trevor Manuel (former minister of finance) and Pravin Gordhan (Manuel's successor and a former SARS commissioner) under whose watch the HRIU (in all its different guises) was established, as well as anybody even remotely resisting the growing cancer of state capture. The HRIU was seemingly enormously successful, with a reputation of making inroads into the illicit economy and recovering billions of rands in lost taxes owed to government. Coincidentally, this meant that family and friends of President Jacob Zuma came into its crosshairs, including his son Edward, nephew Khulubuse, Taiwanese businessman (and Zuma benefactor) Robert Huang as well the Guptas themselves. On Monday, Moyane reiterated that there was nothing wrong with the KPMG report and that he would not be swayed by the firm's retraction of the whole report or parts of it. What is clear though is that Moyane is relying on a lot of flawed and questionable information, much of which has been publicly debunked and never challenged by the powers that be. The KMPG report is one of three investigations used by Moyane to purge SARS and the HRIU: The Sikhakane Panel of Investigation The Kroon Advisory Board KPMG In addition to Pillay's critique of the Sikhakhane Panel, Adrian Lackay, a former SARS spokesperson, sent a detailed memorandum to Parliament setting out the chain of events around the "rogue unit". Both Pillay and Lackay's documents sank without trace. But Sikhakhane, Kroon and KPMG still stand.