1. Here's What The Role Of The SARB Should Be, From The Mouth Of Its Boss These are some extracts from recent speeches by the South African Reserve Bank governor, Lesetja Kganyago. Read them here.2. Ode To Mzansi's Perennial 'Mafikizolo' -- They're Still Fresh AFSo it dawned on me a few weeks ago, listening to Mafikizolo's latest single, "Love Potion", that award-winning band Mafikizolo's name loosely translates to '"those who arrived yesterday", meaning "new kids on the block". I mean, I knew what it meant, I just never thought of it in-depth, especially now that I am looking back at a career that has spanned over the last 20 years, writes Larry Khumalo.3. Dr Mathews Phosa: The ANC Cannot Afford To Abandon The Youth When one looks at the state our youth finds itself in, it is heartbreaking. Our youth is marginalised in all aspects. Youth development must take centre stage. The ANC cannot leave the development of our young people in the hands of the youth league, says Phosa.4. Tumi Morake: A Victim Of South Africa's 'Bell Pottinger' Nothing in what Morake said is racist or represents an attack on whites. In fact, it's clear that she is very much in tune with the national debate and involved in talking about questions that many South Africans are asking, writes Pieter du Toit.5. KwaZulu-Natal Schools Need Urgent Intervention Over Racism, Sex Abuse Revelations On the 12 September 2017, South Africans woke up to learn about the shocking stories involving young South African learners being sexually and physically assaulted in schools in KwaZulu-Natal. These grotesque actions were captured on cameras on cellular devices and were subsequently posted online and went viral. Read more.6. A Lot More Needs To Be Done To Ensure Gender Parity In SA There is no denying that women in South Africa have come a long way. Since the dawn of democracy, women have made significant advancements in business and politics, among other spheres of life. Numerous research findings, however, suggest that despite the great progress made, women still lag far behind their male counterparts. Read more.7. Dr Mamphela Ramphele Remembers Steve Biko -- Umuntu Ungumntu Ngabanye Abantu My most important memory of Steve Biko is that of someone who was much wiser than his age. He was less than thirty years old when he died, but he had the wisdom that many of the politicians of his time could only dream of. And the most important lesson he left us was to remind us that one cannot be free unless one has attained mental freedom. Read more.