Victor and Marie Luna, a husband-wife photography team in Texas, might have come up with the most magical maternity shoot ever. On April 7, Victor, a photographer, and Marie, a photo editor, went to Newman’s Castle in Bellville, Texas, for a maternity shoot with five women. The theme? Disney princesses. The couple was first inspired by the new popularity of “Beauty and the Beast” and then decided to expand their idea. “It started out with a Belle-inspired shoot, but as we talked about the ideas and planned it, the more we wanted to go outside of our own element,” the couple told HuffPost. “That is where the group shot of the Disney-inspired photo shoot with all the princesses came to be.” For the shoot, the mothers (who were either previous clients or models) dressed as Tiana from “The Princess and the Frog,” Snow White, Cinderella, Belle from “Beauty and the Beast” and Jasmine from “Aladdin.” Sew Trendy Accessories, a business that makes handmade maternity gowns, provided the dresses. Victor and Marie told HuffPost that they aligned the “beautiful mommies” with the princesses they thought they represented. They also described the shoot as “a mix of magic and chaos.” “Between the wardrobe changes, the makeup retouches, the pee breaks, and one mommy close to giving birth, we managed to make it come together beautifully,” they said. The couple didn’t want to dive too deep into the characters, but did add a few touches to the shoot like ribbons, headpieces and flowers to represent the princesses. For example, the mom who dressed as Cinderella held a glass slipper for some of her photos. The moms in the shoot were “incredibly excited” to see the final results, according to the couple, and Victor and Marie said they were happy to make the moms feel like Disney royalty for the day. “When we noticed that a few people started to share the photos, our mommies would get in contact with us to let us know that they were famous!” they said. “It made us feel so happy that they were feeling like actual princesses.” See more photos from the shoot below and see more work from Victor and Marie on Facebook and on their site. H/T PopSugar The HuffPost Parents newsletter, So You Want To Raise A Feminist, offers the latest stories and news in progressive parenting.