By Danielle Sax Of course, this title makes you think I am the husband, lover, or partner of that special woman who has my heart. That this is a cry out to a woman to never stop loving me and to keep my heart forever. Well it's not. I am talking to ME, to myself. I AM that woman. I am saying it to that beautiful and amazing woman who is me and who has my heart. Yes, I never want to stop loving MYSELF for the woman that I am. "If you have the ability tolove, love yourself first," says Charles Bukowski. How would you feel if you promised yourself to never stop loving yourself? What would change in your life if you could always trust yourself to have your heart, to love yourself no matter what and to treat yourself as your number one lover? You deserve your own unconditional and eternal love more than anyone else. You are worthy and deserving of your own devoted love. By loving yourself every single second of the day, you not only give yourself inner strength and balance — but you'll love someone else out of love instead of sacrifice. Robert Holden says, "Your relationship with yourself sets the tone for every other relationship you have." Your self-worth and feeling of being "good enough" or even just "enough" cannot depend on other people's love. Giive that feeling to yourself. Just by being born in this world with all the qualities and flaws you have, you can be the best version of yourself. You. Are. Enough. Ask yourself to never forget how very special you are. To treat yourself as if you were your own partner, best friend, or lover. To never criticize yourself for the mistakes you make and to NEVER stop loving yourself exactly the way you are. Self-love and self-care are not selfish; they're your birthright. Do you still believe that practicing conscious self-love and self-care is selfish? It's an ingrained self-destructive impulse or pattern that needs to be acknowledged and worked on because it prevents you from experiencing true love in your life. How can you truly love someone else if you do not love yourself? Would it not be a good idea to first love ourselves in marriage (or partnership), before we ask anyone someone else to love us? "True love only comes when self-love is already there," says Randi G. Fine. We are happier adults and feel more confident and fulfilled when we have self-love — and we would certainly build better loving relationships with others and be an excellent example to our children. Let us learn to love ourselves so we can be more open and compassionate to others, and so we can take down the walls that limit who we can be and what we can contribute. Please have your own heart and never stop loving yourself. You are worth it. To discover more simple-but-powerful steps to activate conscious self-care and self-love and set healthy boundaries for yourself.