Breakups are the worst. No one enjoys the awkward talk, the uncomfortable silences or the possibility of an actual fight. But one woman found a way to avoid all that when cutting someone loose. Kirsten Titus, a 19-year-old student at Brigham Young University, utilized Spotify’s playlist sharing feature to break up with fellow student Wyatt Hall. Her playlist was sent with a special message spelled out in the song titles: “I think the both of us were starting to feel like we were better off as friends, so I figured the best way to express this was via a funny and creative way, mirroring the kind of relationship we had,” Titus told The Huffington Post. The pair weren’t seriously dating and had a light-hearted relationship, Titus said. And even though her younger sister Erika posted the story on Twitter, setting Hall up for possible public humiliation, he was a good sport. “I’m not gonna lie, I thought it was hilarious since we are mostly just friends,” Hall told HuffPost. The tweet was shared nearly 8,000 times, and Hall was pretty excited when he saw the reaction ― he and his own sister have a little rivalry going for who enjoys the most social media love. He finally beat the 150 likes she’d been lording over him. He even posted a playlist of his own, because if you can’t beat ‘em, join ‘em. Most Twitter responders loved the dueling playlists and praised Titus’ creativity, even offering a few song suggestions. She did receive some backlash for her unconventional communication method, but Hall insists it was all in fun and Titus is a “really nice girl.” Public sympathy seems to be working for him, anyway. One user took a moment to flirt with the newly single 20-year-old. It seems every generation brings a new and ridiculous method of breaking up with someone. Remember when e-mail breakups were a thing? Music is great for expression, though, and Titus’ tactics have people communicating all types of emotions ― including hangry. “I appreciate all the people who are taking this light-heartedly and see the fun in it,” she said. What a trendsetter.