Easter eggs have been melting left, right and centre thanks to a spate of warmer weather in the UK. Thorntons customers appeared to be worst affected, with numerous egg deliveries turning up in a sorrowful state. Mina Gourlay bought a ‘Harry Hopalot’ white chocolate bunny from the store, which arrived looking more than a little deflated. @thorntonschocs WWW4202225 have emailed you via your site. Harry is a little depressed..... pic.twitter.com/irsaBAtN96 Meanwhile James Smith’s Continental Easter egg that he’d purchased for his mum had completely caved in. Sad times. @thorntonschocs don't you just love it when you purchase an Easter Egg as a gift for your mum and it arrives like this? #DissapointedMum pic.twitter.com/YIOW9mNKS9 Other Thorntons customers were quick to complain about their molten eggs. My poor @thorntonschocs Easter egg has a war wound. Didn't drop i kept it out of the sun yet it melted it through a window pic.twitter.com/43qyUU4HL4 @myhermes @thorntonschocs Who takes responsibility? Chocolate maker or courier?! pic.twitter.com/wpWxfE59x4 Personalised #EasterEgg delivered today from @thorntonschocs. Only problem is it's melted in transit! #MeltedDelivery pic.twitter.com/iLcZdFJy36 #thorntons came in from work and my Easter egg has been on a diet. pic.twitter.com/BQleTyOvkg The chocolatier has since apologised to customers and sent out replacement eggs. It would appear that its chocolate creations weren’t the only ones to fall victim to the hot weather. Amy Packham, Life writer for The Huffington Post UK, returned home only to discover that her Aldi Easter egg had morphed into something unrecognisable after a particularly warm day. Meanwhile Stephanie Little bought an Easter egg from Tesco, which had folded in on itself. @Tesco bought this Easter egg from your Holyhead (north wales) store today. there's no way it could have melted since we've had it😔😔 pic.twitter.com/ANqRNoBYIS One thing’s for sure, if you’re planning on buying Easter eggs soon, make sure there’s plenty of room for them in the fridge so they don’t end up like this...