It's probably one of the most poignant Sunday scenes in South Africa: church-goers from various denominations that have a uniform proudly donning the colours of their particular group and making their way with others to their place of worship. In several churches across Southern Africa, members are recognisably identified by their uniforms. In South Africa, these are most notably Zionist churches, Apostolic churches, Pentecostal churches, as well as African sects of traditional churches such as the United Methodist Church. A uniform carries identity and dignity, Bishop Marvellous Mhloyi of Revival United Church of Christ, Zimbabwe, told the Sunday Mail in August 2015. Here are some churches in South Africa whose uniforms you might recognise. Zionist churches are a group of Christian denominations that were the first independent African churches -- started by Africans and not by colonial missionaries. The ZCC is the largest and fastest growing of the African independent churches and its membership is estimated at between two million to six million in more than 4,000 parishes.  The ZCC's headquarters is in Zion City, Moria, in Limpopo, where more than a million people from the country make an annual pilgrimage to over the Easter weekend.   At last year's Easter Sunday Moria service, leaders including Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema, several members of the Limpopo legislature and business people were spotted.   ZCC's members have different sets of uniforms according to age, gender and occasion. John Moloi, a member of George Goch ZCC church in Johannesburg, says his church meets three times a week, on Wednesdays, Saturdays and on Sundays. For church services on Sundays, men of all ages wear green suits, but elder women in the church wear green and yellow uniforms, and young women and girls wear blue uniforms. The women's choir uniform is also blue. The women's uniforms for both young and old are matched with green head wraps. For dancing occasions, which take place during the week, men and women wear khaki. The men's military-style khaki gear is matched with green police-style hats and white boots. According to Moloi, members of the uniform groups stick together: on Sundays, each uniform group has its designated seating space, and men and women have separate meetings during the week. All members wear the star badge in and outside of church.   The men of the church do a dance called mokhukhu.   The Apostolic church, also known as the Apostle Unity, is the South African branch of the United Apostolic Church, of which there are many sects that have different uniforms. Most apostolic sect members wear white garments.   The UACC's headquarters is situated in Ha-Mavhunga -- a village in Limpopo. It is a Pentecostal church that has developed from Pentecostal missionary origins. UAAC members are prohibited from wearing their uniform in public, unless when attending fellow members' funerals or related events. Like the ZCC, the UACC also have several different uniforms that are designated according to age and gender. But the UACC also have uniforms indicating hierarchy of senior members who carry authority in the church body: pastors (called vhafunzi) pastors, evangelists (called vhaivangeli), branch presidents (called vhaingameli) and others. According to the UAAC's website, all garments are tailor-made. Specialised garments, caps, belts and outfits for senior members are only made at the church's head quarters. Similar though not identical to the UACC's uniforms, the GCCAC's colours are also white and blue.       Most African Methodist churches have similar uniforms, where men wear ordinary clothing with a red sash with white edging over one shoulder and women wear a red blouse with black skirt, stockings, and a white hat. According to an article in the Sunday Mail, colour is hugely symbolic for Methodist sects. "The red signifies the sin that we were in before the blood of Jesus cleansed us to become white, that is what the white colour stands for" Reverend Elliot Mashonganyika told the publication. Ahead of Easter 2017, The Huffington Post South Africa is delving into what faith and spirituality means to South Africans right now. Against the backdrop of a renewed wave of thought around decolonisation, a new generation are rediscovering their traditional beliefs, while some are reconciling with Christianity. On another note, we tell South Africa's real good news story: our remarkable and peaceful religious diversity. In a world fractured along religious extremism, we have a large Christian population with significant Muslim and Jewish communities, who often come together peacefully and with purpose, as has been evinced at the memorials for departed struggle stalwart, Ahmed Kathrada. Read the rest of the special report here, or choose from our selection below:   Share this slide: 