Have you fallen into a vicious cycle of waking up late, taking entirely too long to get dressed and ultimately arriving at your office way after your colleagues? Make this bad habit the exception, not the rule, and get control of your routine with a few simple time-saving tips. We promise, being prompt — for both professional and personal engagements — will make your life easier 100 percent of the time. Here, hacks for keeping your schedule running like clockwork. Pick your outfit the night before your next engagement, so you don't waste five minutes staring into your closet or trying on multiple combinations. Be sure to have a stable of foolproof ensembles ready for days when you're in a massive hurry. If you tend to change handbags frequently, keep the contents of your purse in a removable pouch so you can transfer essentials quickly and efficiently without accidentally forgetting your keys, wallet or (worse) your phone. Related: 5 Things Every Successful Woman Does Before Bed Organize office-friendly shoes in one area of your closet so you aren't climbing over piles of date-night stilettos to find them. Designate a small tray or jewelry box for everyday essentials like earrings, bracelets and watches, and put it in an easy-to-access spot (on your bathroom counter or vanity, for example). Remember never to store a necklace without closing the clasp first; otherwise, you'll waste unnecessary time trying to untangle it. Related: These Products Save So Much Time When You're Running Late Steam and iron your blouses and dresses in advance, so they're prepped and ready (and pass the time during these chores by listening to an amazing podcast). If you also do your laundry on weekends, set aside 15 minutes to press everything at once, so you can be wrinkle-free for the entire week. Prep your hair before you go to bed, whether it's by sleeping in braids to create '70s waves or simply applying dry shampoo to absorb extra oil. This step will save you precious time when you're rushing out the door. Related: Amanda Seyfried's Trick To Doing Her Makeup In Less That 5 Minutes Make coffee at home to avoid a latte line moving at a glacial pace. Also, fix your breakfast the night before — we love this chia seed recipe — so you can just grab it and go. (Bonus: This tip also saves you money!)