By now you've heard the collective screaming that SERENA WILLIAMS IS PREGNANT. The tennis star announced that she's 20 weeks along with her first child ― with fiance, Reddit co-found Alexis Ohanian ― on Snapchat on Wednesday. Naturally, Twitter was in a frenzy abut it. Because, um, hello: THERE IS A BABY TENNIS PRODIGY/INTERNET MOGUL ON THE WAY. Anyway, we've rounded up some of the web's best gems about this momentous day. Enjoy: Serena Williams was pregnant when she won her 23rd grand slam tournament at the Australian Open. And did not drop ONE SET. Let that sink in. Serena Williams won a grand slam while she was pregnant so every man should probably shut up about everything forever. Their kids are about to have the BEST playdates. pic.twitter.com/fiBDLlxlOk @JarettSays OMGGGGGGGG!!!!!!!!!!!! My faves are all with child!!!!! pic.twitter.com/sVaYSFRAgn Serena Williams announces pregnancy on Maria Sharapova's birthday and will return to world number one on Monday.

Gosh I love tennis Serena Williams casually announced her pregnancy on Maria Sharapova's birthday. She's been around Beyoncé too much. I just see Serena Williams as a mother and her kid is acting up and she's like "Don't Try Me..." 😂😂😂https://t.co/juJzoQeKXS @BuzzFeedpic.twitter.com/lBFeDsoAms Serena at nine months still makes the US Open Semis. https://t.co/KB4Piek2fo LOYALTY ROYALTY INSIDE MY DNA https://t.co/y3NOxw328H Serena Williams was pregnant when she won the Australia Open in Jan. but I cant even get out of bed when I'm on my period. Sis is superwoman I get to exist in an era when Beyonce & Serena Williams are pregnant at the same time. Goddess is so good. pic.twitter.com/gIqSk6oWWq Serena Williams' fetus is already ranked 200th in the world. Congrats to THE Serena Williams! This is awesome! I'm just jealous that Serena at 20 weeks pregnant is me after a Chipotle steak burrito 😩. pic.twitter.com/Fdqv58QIYk Serena Williams wins Australian Open while pregnant, Prince releases 6 new songs and he's not even alive anymore, I give up Can't wait for 53-year old Serena and her kid to win the 2034 Wimbledon doubles title (mixed doubles if its a boy) We can't to see what other baby content Serena serves up. Share this slide: