The ladies of Twitter never fail to brighten our days with their brilliant ― but succinct ― wisdom. Each week, HuffPost Women rounds up hilarious 140-character musings. For this week’s great tweets from women, scroll through the list below. Then visit our Funniest Tweets From Women page for our past collections. Sign up for our Funniest Tweets Of The Week newsletter here. Women's razors being less sharp, but more expensive encapsulates patriarchy perfectly. good morning to everybody except people who talked shit about serena yesterday my dream is to be the first female sexual predator backed by a tv station for 15 years Serena Williams was pregnant when she won the Australia Open in Jan. but I cant even get out of bed when I'm on my period. Sis is superwoman what its like trying to focus on one thing when you have racing thoughts pic.twitter.com/v62v2L9ly0 the meanest text a person can write is: K i will go anywhere and do anything as long as i can be at home in bed w my face washed and skincare routine done by 11:32 pm csT Got all my Christmas shopping done. Hope everyone likes Easter grass and discounted Peeps! Dog: *makes a sound that's halfway between a deranged lion's roar and a whale signaling danger*Me: WHO'S A CUTE BUDDY?? Barack Obama is an Instagram Husband pic.twitter.com/OouLr7bjT2 Mom: You can Netflix & Chill tonight.Me *she doesn't know what that means*Mom: Invite someone from Match or TinderMe *she knows too much* What if aliens make fun of smart people like we make fun of people in Wal-Mart? "I should read Gone Girl again" -me every time I'm mad at my man we getting beyoncé and serena spawn in the same year. we're gonna make it. INTERVIEWER: why do you think you deserve this jobME: I mean I wrote a viral tweet onceINTERVIEWER: ur hired, welcome to the White House BREAKING: my spirit This is the real reason why they don't allow scissors on planes. pic.twitter.com/eQQDAVazNk [House Hunters episode]HUSBAND: I'm a freelance hamster trainer WIFE: And I tune harmonicas part-timeHUSBAND: Our budget is $950K Morning: I am a goddess of the divineNight: *sits in bed catches cookie crumbs with a doritos bag* The biggest misconception about media is that it is run by powerful elites. The media is run by horny girls named Alana, Sarah, and Rachel.