AmaBhungane reported on News24 that the African National Congress is the subject of a lawsuit after it failed to pay a public relations company tasked with helping to set up a covert propaganda campaign to discredit opposition parties in last year's local government elections. "A covert team, initially known as the War Room, intended to 'disempower DA and EFF campaigns' and set a pro-ANC agenda using a range of media, without revealing the ANC's hand. As traditional election campaigns lose their impact with voters, political parties are increasingly turning to more subtle methods, using everything from fake news to paid Twitter accounts to manipulate voter sentiment," amaBhungane reported. If it is true that @MYANC is behind this false poster through their covert operations, then it's violation of Electoral Rules #paidtwitter pic.twitter.com/zQy3LaXii5  "For the War Room this included a seemingly independent news site and chat show, using 'influencers' on social media, and planning to print fake opposition party posters. "However, a scathing close-out report attached to the court application claims the initiatives were either short-lived or stillborn due to mismanagement and a lack of funding," said the report. The Chronicles of Paid Twitter and ANC's R50 million. pic.twitter.com/g0SaI2ioSU  The case, brought in the Johannesburg High Court by PR practitioner Sihle Bolani for an unpaid R2.2 million, implicates several high-profile ANC people, including ANC general manager Ignatius Jacobs, Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe, ANC-linked businessman Joseph Nkadimeng and activist Shaka Sisulu. Sihle Bolani's case against ANC found to be not be urgent and struck from roll. It has not been dismissed, will be heard as non urgent  On Tuesday the high court declined to hear the case on an urgent basis, however it will still be heard at a later stage. ANC REJECTS ALLEGATIONS OF "R50M COVERT CAMPAIGN" & RESULTANT DEBT pic.twitter.com/zkoP2p3Ebh  The ANC published a statement rejecting the allegations. Sisulu also denied it on Twitter. We'll present what we know, as well as the people x reasons behind this story, at this time

Let me fetch receipts. You'll 👂🏾from me shortly  I'm going to take u into my confidence. And answer some of the questions u have.

The article u've seen is grossly misleading deliberately  Twitters readers became a little impatient with Sisulu's lack of response. @ShakaSisulu And where are those recepts, still searching ????#PaidTwitter pic.twitter.com/WKUM2UWs8t  @ShakaSisulu Anc left you under the bus now u r on your own xem   @ShakaSisulu Explain in your own statement, bearing in mind @MYANC has already denied endorsing your actions  @ShakaSisulu waiting for the receipts pic.twitter.com/KjbFS7kkIt  @ShakaSisulu answer questions shortly he says .. pic.twitter.com/6zRWAkUzMf  And in turn, Sisulu became a little impatient with those responders. My phone has been 🔥 it's been impossible to do a thread

I'll answer ur questions tonight on @TrendingSAon3

Ask away. Use the hash #TSAon3  Guise, please stop flooding my DMs with #paidtwitter applications     