Three-year-olds are a pretty notorious subset of the kid population. Between the mood swings, penchant for chaos and destruction, and general toddler angst, it’s clear they don’t call ‘em “threenagers” for nothing. For parents in the throes of this infamous stage, laughter may be the best therapy. And thanks to Twitter, parents can share the comedy with each other. Here are 53 hilarious tweets that sum up life with 3-year-olds. I'm at my most hostage negotiator when I see my 3 year old holding a permanent marker without the lid. Just overheard my 3yo son with iPad in his room ask Siri, "Why do boys have to wear underwear?" [youth sports sign-ups]Me: Do you want to play tee-ball or soccer?3-year-old: The one where I get to kick people.She’ll be a natural. Running through Target. I tell kids repeatedly :don't touch anything! Mins later, 3 year old at top of lungs: "I'M TOUCHING MYSELF!" Nice. Is it wrong to laugh when your 3yo is stuck in her clothes while trying to dress herself? Sometimes when my 3yo hugs me out of nowhere it's amazing and it makes it all worth it. Sometimes he's just wiping his snot on my shirt. You wanna know how my evening is going? My 3-year-old just kissed my head and threw a tantrum because I don't taste like chocolate. My 3 year old got himself stuck in an infant bouncy seat and my first reaction was - well, I guess this is our afternoon activity. If you want to know what an apple slice on the floor under this McDonalds table tastes like, ask my 3 year-old son. Anyone want a 3-year-old? He doesn't listen much but he can fart on demand. #momlife "Sorry we're late but my 3 year old wanted to put on their own shoes today." - Valid Excuse #64 that parents can use on a daily basis 911: What's your emergency?3yo: There's a stem on my apple. I'm the parent of the day at my 3-year-old's preschool, where affection can be won with a bag of Pirate Booty. Aunt: "I think your beard looks handsome."3yo (walking by): "I don't."Oh. People who describe themselves as  "laid back" have never been stuck in an elevator with a 3yo who's determined to hit the alarm button. When Bea was 3:3yo: I love u the mostest.Me: I love u my tiniest baby.3yo: I love u my oldest Mommy. My fossil Mom. You are a fossil. "Wow, Dad, you had two beers and then ANOTHER ONE?!" - My 3yo, auditioning for a new family. My 3-year-old hugged me out of the blue and said, "I love you, Dad."If you need me, I'll be searching the house for whatever she broke. Me: What are you painting?3yo: A rainbow.Me: No, I mean LOOK at what you’re painting!3yo: The couch? I'm making it pretty! Was enjoying listening to my 3yo sing Christmas carols in the bathroom until he yelled, “Mom! Come wipe my butt!” Me: "Who should I vote for?"3yo: "Candy because I like candy.".... and just like that, democracy is explained. In case you're wondering how my 3yo's education is going. He just listed the days as: Mon, Tues, Wed, Thurs, Fri, Saturday, and Christmas. My 3yo refers to every single thing that happens as "crazy!" so he's gonna be REALLY ANNOYING the first few times he gets high. Sorry I can't join u for a spa pedicure. I just had one yesterday.*cut to my 3yo spraying my foot w/a squirt gun filled with toilet water* That moment when your 3yo touches the inside of a public urinal and you consider cutting her hand off with a plastic knife in your backpack. 3yo thinks cuddling in the morning requires wrapping her whole body around my head and coughing in my face.It's SUPER relaxing. Me: "How was your day today?"3yo: "I had a BAD DAY."Me: "Oh no! It seemed like a great day, why was it bad?"3yo: "I DIDN'T HAVE ANY PIE." Just yelled at my 3yo to go to bed and now I can hear her in the dark playing the harmonica. I don’t think anyone can remember being 3yrs old. Case in point: My 3yo can't even remember I told him one sec ago to "Get down from there!" 3yo screams from bathroom: "Mama I have poop on my butt and come look at it in the toilet". <--- this is the sound of #motherhood #momlife My 3-year-old just showed me a boo boo on his rear and insisted I kiss it. #momlife "My kids have no control over me," I say as I pick out only the T-Rex-shaped chicken nuggets for my 3yo's dinner. [reading]Me: The big bad wolf couldn't get in. The house was made of brick3-year-old: Couldn't he break a window?I'm raising a burglar Difference in traveling w/ 3yo vs when he was 1.5? Says things like: "Is it going to be loud in the plane? I think I'm gonna cry in there." I am my 3yo's absolute favorite person in the entire world. Unless his mother is around. Then, I'm a piece of human garbage. This morning I was listing breakfast options and my 3yo goes "Hm, toast. I guess I cld try that" like he's a prince and its a rare delicacy If the Dad Olympics had an event for styling a 3yo girl's hair while she runs across the room screaming, I'd like my chances to get a medal. Having a 3yo daughter means washing piles of clothes because you have no idea what she actually wore that day after 50 outfit changes. My 3 year old's interpretation of common phrase her dad & I use is "geez crisis" & I'm thinking her version is better My 3yo has never seen Seinfeld, but he still manages to enter rooms every time like Kramer. There are moms who are potty training their 6 week olds. I'm trying to figure out if my 3yo ate an Oreo for breakfast or swept the chimney. I think my 3 year old is trying to make me disappear.She keeps walking past me saying "Bippety Boppity Boo!" Share this slide: