Whether you have already braved your first week back at work, or are bracing yourself for your return to your desk, you don't have to leave the festive season behind just yet. The Cape Town social scene opens with the 156th annual running of the L'Ormarins Queen's Plate (LQP) happening this weekend at Kenilworth Racecourse. This year, it will be a two-day event for the first time with a race card of 18 races, making it the biggest horse racing festival of its kind and a first for South Africa. The only thing tomorrow's perfect weather needs is an exquisite colonial Garden Party and the races with bottomless oysters and sparkling wine! Join the beautiful people at L'Ormarins Queen's Plate inaugural Friday. Limited tickets available: via @Computicket #LQPFestival2017 #LOrmarins #ItsaRush A photo posted by L'Ormarins Queen's Plate (@lqpct) on Jan 5, 2017 at 5:59am PST  While the first eight races will take place on Friday, 6 January, as the LQP hosts its first Garden Party with only 500 guests, the traditional running of the Grade 1 L'Ormarins Queen's Plate takes place on Saturday, 7 January. The finest thoroughbreds in South African horse racing will compete for the R1 million prize. #FriendsofLQP "When planning an outfit for the Queens Plate elements of classic whites and deep royal blues come to mind, paired perfectly with the hat to bring the entire outfit to life is a must." "My favourite part of the queens plate is the atmosphere, a sophisticated social event with highlights of fashion, entertainment and the excitement build up over the main race!" ~ @kimberlyjgrey A photo posted by L'Ormarins Queen's Plate (@lqpct) on Nov 25, 2016 at 10:34pm PST  One of the quirks of LQP is its dress code, which is strictly blue and white. In keeping with a day at the races, formalwear, hats and fascinators are encouraged. While blue is part of the theme, you will have some trouble getting in wearing jeans. As is tradition each year, there are prizes for the best dressed man and woman at the event. Making the grade this year will win you prizes that include a trip to the UK, including luxury accommodation and VIP tickets to attend Glorious Goodwood – one of the world's most famous racing events. Once the races are over, look out for the after party, which will feature performances by the likes of South African DJ Euphonik. See you at the races!