Yes, you read correctly. The former reality TV star and "Club 808" presenter, who announced her retirement from the entertainment industry in October 2016, has embarked on a new venture — endorsing fruit and vegetables. Thema announced her partnership with online fruit and vegetable store, The Grocer SA on her social media accounts where she is also sharing tips for a healthier lifestyle. Hi guys..New Year goals to detox and get healthy again, to help you all out in this process, I've teamed up with @thegrocersa to create a Nonhle Thema fruit and veg bag...It's never too late to change bad eating habits for you and your family..simply click on the link on my bio,and order my health bag, they will deliver for free anywhere in Johannesburg and it's cash on delivery..starting prices from R145 a bag ....Enjoy A photo posted by Nonhle*YummyMommy*Thema 😇👑💖 (@nonhle_thema) on Jan 8, 2017 at 11:50pm PST  The Nonhle Thema Bag, available on The Grocer's website, is "a selection of fruit and vegetables enjoyed and endorsed by Nonhle Thema". Mum to four-year-old daughter Star Phoenix Ivy Zime, Thema also runs the Yummy Mommy Club  — a health and fitness programme for mothers — and her Grocer SA bag includes the fruit and vegetables she ate to "stay in shape after having her daughter". Thema took to Twitter to encourage fans to join her on a healthy start to 2017 by giving up meat for the month of January and enjoying a vegetarian diet, a lifestyle change she hopes to make permanent. No meat this entire month or me,I'm on my fruit and veg diet. do join me and let's get healthy ladies and gents...too many people eating bad  Let's do it..my goal this year is to be super healthy and be a vegetarian eventually 🙆 https://t.co/wInsXSounm  She is using her social media platforms to provide encouragement and motivation to those who have taken up the challenge to start a healthier lifestyle along with her. Me too..I'm on a proper veg and fruit diet .you can actually join me on it 👌 https://t.co/biokHRLxhp  Girl gotta be committed. .have some sweet potatoes. .I love those https://t.co/kPj9zQ1JCV  I'm with you on this 💗 https://t.co/HQfri9VYlo  With January marking the start of most people's new health, wellness and fitness goals, perhaps The Nonhle Bag is the hottest accessory you didn't know you needed until now.