MiCasa's lead singer, J'Something (real name João Fonseca), has taken his passion for food and become a South African celebrity chef in his own right. With his cooking show, an ongoing partnership with Knorr and other brands like Le Crueset and Smeg, the charismatic singer, songwriter and businessperson's social media feeds are filled with the food he enjoys making and eating. After a busy festive season that saw the MiCasa team performing around the country, J'Something is catching a break in Cape Town with his wife Coco and documenting his foodie highlights along the way. First stop 🍾 🍹 🍣... @lifegrandcafe ... @mairakoutsoudakis you and John never seize to amaze us. A photo posted by J'Something™ (@jsomethingmusic) on Jan 10, 2017 at 5:00am PST  DOWNTOWN RAMEN 🍜 @davidchang thanks for the inspiration ... I'm obsessed just by his series #MindofaChef [Delayed Post] A video posted by J'Something™ (@jsomethingmusic) on Jan 10, 2017 at 10:17pm PST  Honestly I have never in my life ... this Bao at Downtown Ramen last night is still blowing my mind. If you in Cape Town do yourselves a favor and try this place out. So far it has been the highlight of my break ... and the ramen ofcourse. But we ain't got no time to take pics of our ramen 🍜... A photo posted by J'Something™ (@jsomethingmusic) on Jan 11, 2017 at 12:33am PST  Wow. That's all I can say. @la_tete_restaurant that was a one in a million experience! Tonight we ate Ox heart, pig tails, octopus, and crispy pig cheek and EVERY single thing was worth a repeat :) A photo posted by J'Something™ (@jsomethingmusic) on Jan 11, 2017 at 12:11pm PST  He isn't letting the food indulgences get the better of him, making sure to add workouts to his day and keep it balanced with healthy smoothies prepared in his hotel room. What a morning ... 10km run done and dusted :) Have a smashing day! Team @mifitness_za. ... A photo posted by J'Something™ (@jsomethingmusic) on Jan 10, 2017 at 11:44pm PST  Fail to plan ... plan to fail. A little post workout shake in the hotel room ... bit of whey protein ... banana plus some peanut butter with some raw oats and ice ... and then some power green just in case I don't get enough greens in today :) ✌️ A photo posted by J'Something™ (@jsomethingmusic) on Jan 11, 2017 at 12:09am PST The usually private couple has been sharing more pictures together in the last while, with J'Something posting a heartfelt tribute to Coco saying he "will carry on trying to take over the world" because with her in his corner, he is "unstoppable". Who would've thought. Who would've thought that I would find someone so breathtaking. Someone so captivating. Someone so real and someone so true. Someone so supportive and someone so understanding. I never had any projections for my life in what type woman I wanted to end up with. But I'm glad that our paths collided. Im glad I have you. I promise to hold you in the palm of my hand and to shelter you and to guard you because you are my treasure. I will carry on trying to take over the world, cause with you in my corner I am unstoppable. A photo posted by J'Something™ (@jsomethingmusic) on Jan 11, 2017 at 4:42am PST   