Donald Trump was sworn in as the 45th president of the United States at noon on Friday. A few minutes earlier, Mike Pence was sworn in as vice president. Read live updates on the inauguration below:   Hispanic Lawmakers To Trump: ‘Get Used To Seeing Our Faces’ The Congressional Hispanic Caucus wasted no time Friday threatening to fight incoming President Donald Trump “at every turn” if he moves to reverse his predecessor’s order protecting thousands of young people from deportation. Trump, who won the presidency on anti-immigration promises, has the power to undo President Barack Obama’s 2012 executive order establishing the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA. The program shields more than 750,000 undocumented young people who were brought to the U.S. as children from deportation so they can work or attend college. Rep. Linda Sanchez (D-Calif.) joined fellow caucus members Friday afternoon at a press conference, railing against the new president’s immigration policies. Read more here. ― Laura Barron Lopez  ’Undocumented And Unafraid’ Elioth Gomez, a senior at the University of California, Berkeley, who immigrated from Mexico without documentation with his parents, said the march he participated in from Berkeley to Oakland City Hall was a needed distraction as he worried that he or his family members would be expelled by Trump. “It’s really hard to stay focused when you know that at one point you’re going to get deported,” Gomez said. “I’d rather be surrounded by allies than learning about calculus today.” ― Michael McLaughlin  Senators Reach Agreement On Mike Pompeo Nomination For CIA Democrats objected to voting on Rep. Mike Pompeo’s (R-Kan.) nomination on Friday, arguing the nominee had yet to answer necessary questions. Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) blocked an attempt by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) to confirm Pompeo by unanimous consent. Wyden wants to know where Pompeo stands on the mass collection of Americans’ phone records.  #Senate UC: Vote on motion to proceed to Pompeo nomination tonight.  Vote on confirmation of nomination Monday following 6 hours of debate.  Republicans scolded Democrats for holding up the nomination, saying it would be dangerous to leave the CIA without a director for the weekend. “It makes no sense to leave this post open. Not for another week, not for another day, not for another hour,” McConnell said. “America’s enemies will not pause in plotting, planning and training simply because the Democrats refuse to vote.” “We have never confirmed on Inauguration Day a CIA director,” Wyden shot back. ― Laura Barron-Lopez  Mattis Confirmed As Secretary Of DOD The Senate confirmed retired Marine Gen. James Mattis to be secretary of defense Friday evening, hours after Trump was sworn in as the 45th president of the U.S. It was smooth sailing for Mattis, whose nomination was confirmed by the Senate 98-1. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) was the only senator to vote against him. Mattis, who retired in 2013, needed a waiver to bypass a law stating defense secretaries must be out of the military for at least seven years. Both chambers of Congress passed the waiver in the past week, and Trump signed it earlier Friday. ― Laura Barron-Lopez  Protests Continue In Oakland, California Several hundred protesters have marched from Berkeley’s university campus to join a downtown Oakland, California, demonstration a few miles away. Traffic was disrupted along a stretch of Telegraph Avenue leading from the college as the march headed to Oakland’s city hall. Terri Saul, 45, an art director from Berkeley, said Trump’s vow to repeal Obamacare threatened the life of her brother, who gets treatment for systemic scleroderma through the Affordable Care Act. “Losing health care is going to mean a lot of people lose their lives,” Saul told HuffPost. “My brother doesn’t know what he’s going to do.” ― Michael McLaughlin  Trump’s Inaugural Speech Sounded More Like A Takeover Forgive me, but I love presidential inaugurations. Covering politics and adoring America ― especially our Constitution ― I relish the pageantry of the law-based transition of power, even if I know that we are still not a perfect union. I have covered many inaugurations, and they’ve shared certain reassuring characteristics. The speech allows each new president to start things off on a peaceable note, however urgent the tasks at hand. It’s a chance to pay homage to the constitutional process, to acknowledge those who may not have supported the incoming president during the campaign, to offer soothing words about the durability of freedom. And for the better part of a century, the inaugural speech has allowed new presidents to reaffirm our faith in an active global alliance of free nations for the spread of humanistic values. Well, Trump’s speech offered almost none of that. Read more here. ― Howard Fineman  Behind Trump’s Dark Rhetoric Was A Populist Agenda He’s Unlikely To Deliver On Forget, just for a moment, about the quality of the prose in Trump’s inaugural address. Don’t get caught up in the idealism, or lack thereof. And put aside whether its dark portrait of “American carnage” resembles the reality of America today. Focus instead on some of the promises Trump made to the American people ― to smash the business and political establishments, to rebuild America’s manufacturing economy, to fix schools, to stop crime and even to fight poverty. “Today we are not merely transferring power from one administration to another or from one party to another,” Trump said. “We are transferring power from Washington, D.C., and giving it back to you, the American people.” There are many reasons to be skeptical that’s how Trump will actually govern. Some of the best ones were right up there on the stage with him. Read more here. ― Jonathan Cohn  Trump Advisers Tour White House Press Space Steve Bannon and Katie Walsh tour the press workspace in the White House pic.twitter.com/rrvlczU8I5   Empty Stands During Parade Many of the viewing stands set up along Pennsylvania Avenue in front of the White House were empty as Trump and Pence arrived to watch the rest of the parade. Vice President Mike Pence just passed ...#InaugurationDay2017 pic.twitter.com/ICgrhMZ5Kq  ― Sam Levine  Senate Votes On Mattis Confirmation Senate is now taking its first vote under a Trump administration on the nomination of James Mattis to be secretary of defense.   Trump Delivered A Dire, Frightening Speech, Dems Say Many Democratic lawmakers who sat through Trump’s inaugural address left feeling like he delivered a grim and frightening message to the world. While they took note of Trump’s appeals to unity, their overall impression of the relatively brief 1,433-word speech was that he was talking about a world they do not live in. “He described a very dire picture, which I don’t share,” said Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.). “It was unnecessarily dark, and depressing. Usually a presidential speech is much more uplifting and inspiring.” Read more here. ― Michael McAuliff & Laura Barron-Lopez  Meanwhile... The Senate will vote on two of President Trump's cabinet nominees ~4:50pm:- SecDef Gen James Mattis- DHS Sec Gen John Kelly   One Of Trump’s First Acts Will Cost Homeowners Millions Of Dollars With one of his first orders, Trump made it more expensive for working- and middle-class Americans to buy their first homes. The move will increase costs for 750,000 to 850,000 Americans in the next year alone, according to the National Association of Realtors. The Obama administration had said last week that the Federal Housing Administration would drop the cost of mortgage insurance it sells by almost a third to 0.6 percent. But after Trump took office, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which oversees the FHA, told lenders the fee cut was off. The reversal of the reduction will mean that homebuyers who borrow $200,000 under the program will see their mortgage insurance fees go up by $500 a year relative to what the Obama administration had ordered, according to figures released by the FHA when the cut was announced. The reduction was intended to help partially offset the cost of rising mortgage rates and was scheduled to go into effect on Jan. 27. The government sells the insurance in case borrowers default. Read more here. ― Ben Walsh & Paul Blumenthal  Inaugural Parade Underway Trump’s motorcade is slowly making its way down a rainy Pennsylvania Avenue. Trump briefly exited his car, walking and waving to the crowd while he was in front of the D.C. hotel. .@realDonaldTrump gets out of his limo to walk a stretch along the parade route that passes the Trump hotel. pic.twitter.com/2wOQpZbnVU  Here's a look along the #Inauguration Parade route, with President Donald Trump leading the way down Pennsylvania Avenue #DayOne pic.twitter.com/Xr26xSAxBH  ― Marina Fang  Trump Thanks Hillary Clinton On His Inauguration Day Trump thanked his 2016 election opponent, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, at an inauguration luncheon on Friday. Within a few hours of taking the oath of office, Trump recognized Clinton and her husband, former President Bill Clinton, at a luncheon with congressional leaders. “I was very honored, very, very honored, when I heard that President Bill Clinton and Secretary Hillary Clinton was (sic) coming today,” Trump said. “I’d like you to stand up.” Read more here. ― Paige Lavender  Obama Says Goodbye To The White House In One Last Photo Barack Obama said goodbye to the White House once last time Friday morning, from a lofty perch aboard the Executive One helicopter moments after Trump’s inauguration. Farewell. A photo posted by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on Jan 20, 2017 at 12:06pm PST  Read more here. ― Ryan Grenoble  Somebody Is Trolling The FBI A sign reading “THANKS FBI” is hanging in a window across the street from the bureau’s headquarters, right along the inaugural parade route. Wait for it... #Inauguration pic.twitter.com/n6bc9iU4aw  ― Ryan J. Reilly  Sanchez: ‘Mr. President... Get Used To Seeing Our Faces’ Rep. Linda Sanchez (D-Calif.) spoke about immigration at a Congressional Hispanic Caucus news conference Friday afternoon. Sanchez at CHC presser vowing to fight Trump's immigration agenda hours after inauguration: "Mr. President...get used to seeing our faces." pic.twitter.com/Z63u68J94A  ― Laura Barron-Lopez  Students Walk Out Of Bay Area Classes Students in Berkeley, California, skipped high school and college classes at noon local time as part of Inauguration Day protests around the Bay Area. Several thousand people had converged on a plaza at the University of California, Berkeley, to hear speakers who vowed to resist Trump’s agenda and also shut down an upcoming campus speech by right-wing social media firebrand Milo Yiannopoulos. A crowd appearing to include several hundred Berkeley high school students arrived soon after noon, chanting, “Hey hey. Ho ho. Donald Trump has got to go.” #j20resist Berkeley High students arrive to join university protest. pic.twitter.com/HXRLlIJ7ST  A small group of counter-protesters, led by the College Republicans group, reportedly broadcast Trump’s words. Berkeley College Republicans broadcast Trump as the protest continues #berkwalkout pic.twitter.com/UoxTJxWuAH  ― Michael McLaughlin    Watch A Trump Supporter And A Protester Have A Civil Conversation It’s not all threats of repression and rock-throwing in D.C. today. Away from the pomp and circumstance of Inauguration Day activities, supporters and opponents of the new president have been walking down the same streets, choosing between the same downtown food options (Subway or ABP?) and dealing with the rain that began just as Trump started to give his inaugural address. The Huffington Post chanced upon one unlikely pair at Rawlins Park, a few blocks up from the National Mall. Watch their discussion and find out more here. ― Akbar Shahid Ahmed  Another Plane Full Of Women Heading To D.C. THIS IS WHAT a plane full of women who are ready to resist the Trump agenda LOOKS LIKE pic.twitter.com/jqLPNE9VOh   Female Senators Wear Planned Parenthood Scarves To Inauguration Today, we stood with Planned Parenthood and the millions of women & men who don't want to see their health care taken away. -PM pic.twitter.com/Oip7Z5q4Sh   Protester Punches White Nationalist Leader In The Face Richard Spencer, a white nationalist leader who supported Trump’s presidential campaign, says he was attacked on the streets of Washington, D.C. He was seen giving interviews to reporters shortly before the incident. I was just physically assaulted twice by antifas. No serious damage. I can take a punch.  ― Nick Wing  D.C. Mayor Responds To Protests To those of you visiting Washington, D.C. we welcome you but we cannot allow you to destroy our neighborhoods. #Inauguration #Inaug2017   You’re Not Imagining Things, It Started Raining Right When Trump Took The Oath On Thursday, Trump said of the weather at his inauguration, “I have a feeling it’s going to be beautiful.” Instead, it rained. Rick Wilking/Reuters Former President George W. Bush keeps covered while rain falls during the inauguration ceremony. Not only did it rain, it began raining at pretty much the exact moment Trump took the oath of office Friday. “There were off and on light showers during the inauguration,” Mike Bettes, a meteorologist at The Weather Channel, told The Huffington Post. “As best I can ascertain from the radar, it likely started sprinkling right at 12 p.m.” Chief Justice John Roberts administered the oath of office to Trump at exactly noon. ― Ryan Grenoble This comment has been deleted  The National Mall Looked Relatively Empty For Trump’s Inauguration Aerial shots of the National Mall during the inauguration showed relatively sparse crowds. Crowd estimates for the ceremony have not been released, but security had planned for a crowd of about 800,000 to 900,000 people. Photos taken just prior to the swearing-in ceremony showed large portions of tarp exposed, with almost no one standing near the Washington Monument. Read more here. ― Mollie Reilly  Some GOP Lawmakers Appeared Uncomfortable With Trump’s Speech Sen. McCaskill (D-Mo.) said Republicans sitting around her were "squirming" when President Trump bashed Washington/politicians in speech.   Obama Photos Removed At DOJ Photos of former President Barack Obama and his administration were removed from the walls of the Justice Department on Friday, shortly after Trump was sworn in. Government officials recently told HuffPost that the new photos of Trump will not be available for at least a few weeks Ryan J. Reilly/The Huffington Post ― Ryan J. Reilly  2 D.C. Police Officers Injured In Violent Protests Two police officers were injured Friday “related to vandalism and destruction of property,” Lt. Sean Conboy of the D.C. Metropolitan Police Department told The Huffington Post. Ninety-five people have been arrested. ― Andy Campbell  Plenty Of Room Along The Parade Route Not long before the start of the inaugural parade, there’s plenty of space left along Pennsylvania Avenue. This photo shows the corner of 10th and Pennsylvania, a short distance from Trump’s hotel. Ryan J. Reilly/The Huffington Post ― Ryan J. Reilly  Crowds Surge At Women’s March Store The line stretched down the block in the Adams Morgan neighborhood of Washington as people waited to get into a pop-up store selling gear splashed with slogans for Saturdays Women’s March in Washington. There might be more people lined up at the resistance/women's march store in Adams Morgan than there are the inaugural parade. pic.twitter.com/pRhPDkIW7g  ― Travis Waldron    ‘It Is What It Is’ “Mike Pence ― did he ever think he’d be vice president?” joked Sherri Shafer. “It’s like Joe Manchin being vice president.” Pence was on the big television screen taking the oath. Shafer was sitting more than five hours away in a room set aside for West Virginia State University students and faculty to watch the inauguration. Free pizza, sodas and popcorn had been set out. But that wasn’t enough of a lure. Shafer, the chair of the communications and media studies department, was joking to an essentially empty room. Only a handful had shown up to watch. West Virginia State, a historically black college with 3,500 students located a short drive from Charleston, is often quiet on Fridays. A few years ago, when gas prices spiked, the college decided to try to keep most classes Monday through Thursday so commuting students could keep their driving costs manageable. As Trump began his speech, promising to be guided not by Washington but by the people, to put America first, no one in the room cheered or showed much emotion at all. One man, who had taken a seat closest to the door, walked out about midway through the short campaign-lite speech. Jeff Petty, 21, the only student in the room, sat up front taking it all in with a plate of popcorn. He had voted for Bernie Sanders in the primary. He said he skipped voting in the general election. He wanted to give Trump a chance, but wasn’t sure if he could believe anything from his speech. “I don’t know,” he said. “He’s flipped flopped so much… I don’t know how to take it.” Trump was now just another politician with a speech full of promises. In the nearby student union, Maurice Green, 21, and Alicia Tucker, 19, ate lunch at a table away from the television screens. Tucker had watched Trump take the oath of office, but skipped the speech. “I mean I think it’s a joke,” she said. “It is what it is. You can’t wish bad on somebody that’s going to run the country for the next four years. I’m hoping something good can come of it. I’m just a little surprised and amazed.” “He played on America’s deepest, darkest fantasies,” Green interjected. “Fears,” Tucker replied. “That too,” Green agreed. It was all still scary. “Your vote showed how you feel,” Tucker said. Tucker didn’t vote in the general election. Green, who is a sophomore and in the National Guard, voted for Clinton. ― Jason Cherkis    Trump Awkwardly Hands Out Pens Among First Official Acts The first thing presidents do after they leave the inaugural ceremony is sign a bunch of papers to make it all official. This means lots of pens get handed out to attendees as mementos. House and Senate leaders from both sides of the aisle were in attendance while Trump signed his documents, most of which were official nominations for his new Cabinet. Handing out the pens proved interesting. Trump tried to give House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) the pen he used to officially sign Tom Price’s nomination to lead the Department of Health and Human Services. She was not excited. So Trump offered her another — Elaine Chao, for transportation secretary. Proving she pays better attention to these things than the new president, Pelosi gave that one to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnel (R-Ky.). Chao is McConnel’s wife. — Michael McAuliff  Louisville Trump Voter Excited For Millennials To Experience Trump Christine Gupton, 46, a life coach for retiring athletes from Louisville, Kentucky, is excited for millennials to witness a presidency that resembles Ronald Reagan’s. “They’ve never witnessed a Reagan era and I have,” she said. “They’re going to show that there’s a cool factor in politics, that there’s a cool factor back in the White House.” Christine Gupton of Louisville thinks Millennials are now going to get to experience the prosperity of the Reagan era pic.twitter.com/asytJDmy25  ― Daniel Marans  In His Inaugural Address, Trump Embraced Anti-Semites’ Slogan During Trump’s campaign for president, the Anti-Defamation League, a nonprofit dedicated to fighting anti-Semitism and other forms of bigotry, asked him to stop using the phrase “America First” to describe his foreign policy views. As the ADL explained, the slogan was used by people who warned, ahead of World War II, that Jewish Americans were pushing the U.S. to enter the war because they put their own interests ahead of the country’s. But Trump never stopped using the slogan. And on Friday, he made it a key part of his inaugural address. “From this day forward,” he proclaimed, “A new vision will govern our land. From this moment on, it’s going to be America First.” The crowd went wild. People who aren’t Jewish or familiar with the history may not realize this, but “America First” makes many people deeply uncomfortable. Read more here. ― Nick Baumann    Bushes Recovering In The Hospital Former President George H.W. Bush and first lady Barbara Bush were unable to attend the inauguration because of health problems. In an update on Friday, their spokesman said they are both recovering in the hospital and watched the inauguration together. Herewith is the Jan 20 2017 update on President and Mrs. @GeorgeHWBush. pic.twitter.com/YM7hMWy24B  ― Marina Fang  Meanwhile, In San Francisco Demonstrators are lining up along the pedestrian walkways of San Francisco’s iconic Golden Gate Bridge to form a “human chain.” “What we’re looking for is a beautiful visual symbol of togetherness,” organizer David Moore told KTVU on Thursday. About 4,0000 people were expected to attend. Watch the protest here. ― Mollie Reilly  Iowa Farmer Says Trump Will ‘Make Farming Great Again’  Ed Ritz, a farmer from Akron, Iowa says Trump will help farmers: "I'm tired of farmers being the butt of the joke" pic.twitter.com/QvTiFLiw0T   Sens. Sanders And Klobuchar Mum After Inaugural Ceremony Sen. Sanders (I-Vt.) didn't want to talk to press after inauguration ceremony. Sen. Klobuchar (D-Minn.): "I have nothing to say right now."   White House Website Now Wrong And Pointlessly Scary The White House site now says that "killings have risen by 50%" in D.C. That is incorrect. They were up in 2015, down in 2016. pic.twitter.com/Pjftfz89Uf   Pope Asks Trump To Keep In Mind The Poor And Outcast Pope Francis has a message for Trump: “Under your leadership, may America’s stature continue to be measured above all by its concern for the poor, the outcast and those in need who, like Lazarus, stand before our door.” Pope Francis' message to President Donald Trump pic.twitter.com/bGqLaXDSfj  ― Ryan Grenoble  Classic Biden The Bidens just boarded Amtrak’s Acela Express at Washington’s Union Station to go home to Wilmington, Delaware. Joe Biden arrives at Union Station to take @Amtrak back home to Delaware. "Back on Amtrak," he proclaimed while boarding. pic.twitter.com/kwuQ4xNqRk  Peak Biden. pic.twitter.com/RHKWiDm8GJ  ― Marina Fang  Floyd Mayweather Attends Trump’s Inauguration Laura Baron-Lopez/The Huffington Post Laura Barron-Lopez/The Huffington Post ― Laura Barron-Lopez  McCain: Trump Speech Was ‘A Continuation Of The Campaign’ Sen. John McCain won't say if he liked or disliked Trump's speech: "It was a continuation of the campaign that won him the presidency."   White House Website’s Page On Climate Change Appears To Be Gone https://t.co/63EBuFsA5v could not be found pic.twitter.com/xHL4HVgl1f   Kristol Calls Trump Phrase ‘Depressing And Vulgar’ I'll be unembarrassedly old-fashioned here: It is profoundly depressing and vulgar to hear an American president proclaim "America First."   A Familiar Photo Pretty sure the flag-waving cover photo from Trump's new POTUS account is, uh, a picture from Barack Obama's Inauguration pic.twitter.com/8ZvJKPzjV7   Trump’s Speech Shortest Since George W. Bush Inaugural speech times:TRUMP: 16:14'13: 18:21'09: 18:37'05: 21:07'01: 14:25'97: 21:55'93: 13:59'89: 20:33'85: 20:40'81: 20:03     Foreign Policy Experts Worry About Trump’s Foreigner-Bashing Speech This speech will be deeply unsettling to American allies, and do great damage to America's reputation around the world.  Trump sounding like he is still a candidate for the presidency. Pure fear mongering. A terrible message to send to Americans and our allies. Missing in "America First" emphasis is the demonstrated, long-standing notion that this country benefits from world's stability & prosperity  ― Akbar Shahid Ahmed  Popular Jab At Politicians Trump’s claim that politicians have been complaining but doing nothing got most of the applause during his inaugural address, according to HuffPost’s Laura Barron-Lopez. ― Paige Lavender