A picture of a black woman sitting inside a cage on a bakkie is circulating on social media. Yes, really. The picture, showing a white Isuzu bakkie with an Eastern Cape license plate angered many people who saw the image. The picture depicts the woman with her head bowed down. Confirmed : the driver is white, name is Johan Erasmus, now how's that for facts? Cc @helenzille https://t.co/kYStRYwEiW IOL spoke to the owner of the vehicle Leta Schoeman, who said her husband Johan gave the woman a lift in the bakkie. She told the publication that the unknown woman refused to get in the front of the bakkie and opted to sit at the back. The cage is apparently used to transport livestock. You know your bakkie has a cage and you find it okay for someone to put herself there just because "she said she wanted to be at the back"  "My husband weighs sheep and the cage can come off," Schoeman said. The woman in the cage apparently wasn't available for comment. It's the second racism incident to emerge on Thursday following the accusations levelled against an acting director from the city of Tshwane. The director allegedly called black people baboons and kaffirs. '@CityTshwane director says black people don't deserve their jobs. They're inadequate and unequal to the task.' https://t.co/KpjX61bDJD  Racisms incidents particularly on social media have become increasingly common. EWN reported that the driver explained he had just made a delivery to a farm when the woman asked to sit in the cage on the back of his bakkie.  Johan Schoeman told DispatchLIVE that he was doing a good deed but was not happy with how it was interpreted on social media. He also claimed that the cage fills the entire back of the bakkie which could be the reason why the woman was in the cage. "I am not happy about that [being portrayed a racist] because I am trying to help people but how this thing is going is like I did something wrong."  Looking at the picture, there appears to be space alongside the cage. Woman asked to be #caged 😯😕😮?
Yeah right !!!
Bakkie cage: Driver reacts after social media outrage https://t.co/URUQ4AQJZm  