Listen, if you’re looking for some serious political analysis on the wholly unsubstantiated claim that Donald Trump paid prostitutes to “perform a golden showers show in front of him” inside a Russia hotel room where the Obamas once stayed, this is not that place. But if you’re looking for some good tweets, well, look no further. wait what's this about golden showers yooooo SOMEBODY PLEASE MAKE A MASH-UP OF ALL THE NEWS ANCHORS SAYING "GOLDEN SHOWERS" LATER TONIGHT. ive never laughged at a piss joke. (sees how impressed everyone is, takes it one step further) in fact, ive never laughed before in my life. she warned us pic.twitter.com/80SoXsOGwM Well now I *really* feel bad for the Rockettes. STREEP spelled backwards is PEE RTs "Joe you can't just mutter 'peetus' under your breath when we meet him""I don't see why not. Peetus. It's his name."#GoldenShowers pic.twitter.com/mTZ0V0KI5g Kanye’s new hair makes a lot more sense now #GoldenShowers pic.twitter.com/Q1wvIxhGdl 🤔 pic.twitter.com/R3IXnFqwNW Here I am in the presidential suite at the Ritz Carlton-Moscow, all cozy in bed! And now to take a large sip of vodka and open up BuzzFeed BREAKING: R. Kelly confirmed to perform at inauguration. Softly sensuous showers for the inauguration, huh? pic.twitter.com/aBGa0W6mha Countdown to like, Jerry Falwell Jr. saying something like "Mr. Trump only paid those prostitutes to do what Obama has to the Constitution" "I don't care if it's accurate! You can't say that Trump got 'pissy' about anything." - Newsroom editors. It's not often I miss doing a daily show but when I see #GoldenShowers trending I think....maybe it's time to get back in the game. Thank you god. pic.twitter.com/XaRcRwNT0B This #ObamaFarewell is beautiful. The love. Could Trump soak up all this warmth? Oh, man. Trump has got some big urine-free shoes to fill!#ObamaFarewell Dear @Twitter Can you make #goldenshowers the top trend everyday all the time until 2020?Please RT Oh yes, and by the way, Fox News tweeted this back in November, and it could not have possibly reemerged on the internet at a better time. President-elect Donald Trump​'s plane given a water salute as it takes off from NY to the White House​ for his meeting with President Obama pic.twitter.com/XFY6xsX8Zi