  If you're like most and think a meal needs meat to be high in protein or nutritionally complete, you need to try these protein-rich plant based recipes. Whether you're vego, vegan or simply want to cut back on your meat intake, swapping meat for protein-rich legumes, beans, peas and whole grains is a great idea. It helps you up the fibre (your digestive system will thank you), as well as increase the mixture of phytonutrients which possess potent antioxidant effects. From baked falafel pita pockets to butternut pumpkin risotto, these recipes from The Vegetarian Athlete's Cookbook by Anita Bean have got you sorted. "This is a perfect refuelling meal after a long workout. It contains a 4-to-1 ratio of carbohydrate to protein, so will restock muscle glycogen stores as well as promote rapid muscle recovery," Bean said. "The beans and peas supply high levels of protein and fibre, while the pine nuts give you omega-3 oils that also promote recovery." Serves two.    "Falafel are perfect for al fresco eating -- picnics, barbecues -- as well as lunch on the move," Bean said. "Chickpeas are packed with protein, fibre, iron, manganese and magnesium. They also contain fructo-oligosaccharides, which increase the friendly bacteria of the gut that improve digestion. These falafel are baked instead of fried, so they don't absorb extra oil." Serves two (makes approx. 12 falafels). For the salsa:   "Tofu is an excellent source of protein and calcium and can be used in place of meat in many recipes," Bean said. "Plain tofu is quite bland, so I recommend using a ready-made marinated tofu (available in supermarkets) in this recipe for its richer flavour." Serves two.   "When it starts to get chilly, this is the perfect recipe for a warming mid-week meal," Bean said. "Chickpeas are an excellent source of fibre, protein and iron. They also contain fructo-oligosaccharides, a type of fibre that increases the friendly bacteria of the gut. Here, I've combined them with spinach, which is a fantastic source of folate and iron." Serves two.    Recipes and images from The Vegetarian Athlete's Cookbook by Anita Bean. Photography by Adrian Lawrence.  