President Donald Trump’s Twitter game may not be as fierce as he likes to think. On Tuesday, the social media platform revealed the world’s 10 most retweeted and three most “liked” posts of 2017. Trump, who regularly shows off in front of his 44.1 million followers by launching unprovoked attacks on his opponents, failed to feature on either list. To add insult to injury, Trump’s predecessor in the White House, former President Barack Obama scored high in both roundups. Three of Obama’s tweets made the “most retweeted” list and two appeared in the “most liked” category. Obama’s plea for racial equality following white nationalist violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, in August was both the “most liked” tweet of the year, and the second most retweeted. Obama’s Twitter followers more than double the number for Trump ― as of Monday, the ex-president had 97.6 million. Some slight consolation for Trump may be that he was crowned the most tweeted about elected world leader this year. But as various stories have noted, he’s often mentioned in a negative light. Other tweets to rack up millions of “likes” this year included Ariana Grande’s response to the terror attack at her May concert in Manchester, England, and NBA star LeBron James’ zinger at Trump over the president’s rescinding ― via Twitter ― the White House invitation to the league champion Golden State Warriors after some of the team’s players, including star Stephen Curry, said they wouldn’t be attending. The Twitter champion of the year, however, was Carter Wilkerson — the Nevada teen whose lighthearted request for a year’s supply of chicken nuggets from the Wendy’s fast-food chain went viral. After being shared an astonishing 3.6 million times, it’s now the most retweeted post ever: The Miss Universe 2017 pageant was the most tweeted-about global television event, K-pop group BTS took that honor among celebrities, and Spanish soccer team Real Madrid’s #halamadrid was the world’s top sports hashtag.  “Game of Thrones” was the most tweeted-about TV show in the U.S., with Netflix’s “Stranger Things” taking the accolade for streaming shows. “Wonder Woman” won the award for most tweeted-about movie. suicide hotline 1-800-273-82551 person ends their life every 40 secondswill u take the time to retweet this & possibly save one of them? 1. #Resist 2. #MAGA 3. #ImpeachTrump 4. #TrumpTrain 5. #WomensMarch 6. #NotMyPresident 7. #BlackLivesMatter 8. #NODAPL 9. #TakeAKnee 10. #BoycottNFL 1. Wonder Woman 2. La La Land 3. Dunkirk 4. Spider-Man: Homecoming 5. Justice League 6. It 7. Beauty and the Beast 8. Thor: Ragnarok 9. Black Panther 10. Fifty Shades Darker 1. Game of Thrones 2. Stranger Things 3. Big Brother. 4. 13 Reasons Why 5. Saturday Night Live 6. The Walking Dead 7. Grey’s Anatomy 8. The Voice 9. Supernatural 10. Pretty Little Liars 1. Stranger Things 2. 13 Reasons Why 3. Orange is the New Black 4. House of Cards 5. Sense8 6. Narcos 7. The Get Down 8. The Handmaid’s Tale 9. Bojack Horseman 10. Daredevil 1. #lovatics 2. #littlemonsters 3. #harmonizers 4. #beliebers 5. #5sosfam The order of the tweets was correct at the time Twitter released the data.