Ring the church bells! We’re goin’ to the royal chapel again next year (yep, Prince Harry and Meghan Markle already set a date), and... We. Can’t. Wait. Since the announcement of their engagement, we’ve been all “cuppa tea” this and “cheers, mate” that. So, naturally, when we saw WeddingWire’s take on the traditions and trends that are sure to be included in the next royal nuptials, we had to share. Related: Everything You Need to Know About Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s Relationship Most royal brides have a worn a tiara for their big day (Kate's was a Cartier Halo tiara from the queen's collection). No princess fairy tale is complete without a horse-drawn carriage. But seriously, the royal couple rides in the State Landau, a 1902 gilded open carriage, on the way to their reception. Related: 14 of the Most Stunning Royal Wedding Dresses of All Time Because, ya know, it's less formal...  Since most British weddings take place in the morning, there's usually a breakfast or lunch reception. In recent years, the royals have also had a dinnertime reception in order to spend more time with guests (and bust a move on the dance floor, of course).  Kate and William's was eight tiers tall and contained sugar flowers and the couple's monogram. Princess Diana and Prince Charles had a five-foot-tall cake with the family coat of arms. Almost all royal weddings have had children in the wedding party, so we're sure Harry's beloved niece and nephew (and maybe the new royal baby?) will be involved.  Related: 17 of Kate Middleton’s Absolute Best Maternity Looks Myrtle, a flower meaning good luck in love, has been in every royal bouquet since Queen Victoria.  Kate and William were married in Westminster, while Charles and Diana got married in St. Paul's Cathedral.  We mean, when has a royal wedding not featured the most drool-worthy train ever? K. Middy's was nine feet long, and Diana's was a whopping 20-footer. Here's hoping Markle goes all out for her fairy-tale gown. Related: Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s Official Meet-Cute Story 5 Beauty Tips Meghan Markle Swears By Guys, You Can Now Have a Royal Wedding Just Like Kate Middleton Quiz: Are You a Kate of a Pippa?  How to Dress Like Kate Middleton on a Plebian Budget