Have you finished matric, but discovered that your results aren't good enough to apply for the course you want to pursue? Here's how you can improve your matric subjects and get the marks you need to pursue further education. Finishing high school is a huge step forward in your life, but it also comes with a lot of pressure, decision making and disappointments. This is a dilemma many matriculants face. Remember, you are not alone –– and second chances do exist. Firstly, pat yourself on the back for getting through high school. You deserve to be proud, even if you aren't happy with your marks right now. The next step is to figure out the next move forward. Do you want to improve your marks? Do you need better marks to get into a specific course? If the answer is yes, it's time to lay your options on the table. You are at a crossroads, and the options you have must be weighed up carefully. 1. Choose a Different Route Going Forward Perhaps you need to take a route that requires fewer academic requirements than your initial study choice. Before deciding on this option, consider whether or not you will be satisfied with the different route. Think about everything -- from earning potential to passion and interest. If you have doubts, my suggestion is to consider the impact this will have on your life in the long run. If you can afford to, you may want to take a step back for a year, so that you can figure out which direction you really want to head in to secure a great future. Have a look at this article to find out which career options you have. 2. Do a Bridging Course Most universities offer bridging courses or extended programmes for high school graduates who didn't meet the requirements, or don't feel confident enough to jump into a degree. If in doubt, call the specific department and ask whether or not you can apply for an extended programme. 3. Register for a Course that Will Allow you to Redo Subjects By redoing certain subjects, you have a second chance to improve your marks. This could help you get into the course of your choice. Although this can feel like a setback, it's a very mature approach to your adult life. Yay, you! There are many institutions who offer the option to redo matric subjects, although few public high schools allow students to redo the full matric year. This is probably a relief -- most people generally don't want to go back to their old school. Here are a few institutions which will allow you to redo your subjects: Damelin Correspondence How much does it cost to register for the full course (7 subjects)? The cost depends on the subject chosen and can be worked out by the institution. How much does it cost to do courses per subject? Approximately R3,500 per subject (depending on which subject) FYI: There are no lessons. Students will be required to come in only for control tests and exams. Intec College– Distance Learning How much does it cost to register for the course? Course cost includes registration, but not the repeat Matric exam fee for the Department of Higher Education –– which is around R2,200 per subject. Students can only rewrite a subject, not upgrade a subject (e.g. you cannot switch from Maths Literacy to Pure Maths). Please note: if you wrote the exams set by the Department of Basic Education, you will need to register to rewrite the subjects for which you did not meet the minimum requirements. You may register at your high school, or at an examination centre for part-time NSC Grade 12 repeat candidates. FYI: Online tutoring and course material provided. Learners will still be required to register for the final exam with the Department of Higher Education at the exam centres. Intec College can advise learners on this. There are no classes; all learning is through correspondence. If you are over the age of 21, different conditions apply. You may call Intec College directly for more information. Abbotts College How much does it cost to register for the course? Admin fee of R2,000 How much does it cost to do courses per subject? To redo one to three subjects, the costs are about R4,808 per month for matrics. FYI: Students will need to go in from Monday to Friday for the whole year, for classes in the specific subjects they want to redo. Tshwane University of Technology How much does it cost to register for the full course? Around R9,500 overall for Maths and Science (both subjects included). To register you will be required to provide: What are the entry requirements? Please note that you will need to have: You will need to submit the enrolment form BEFORE 17 January 2018 FYI: The selection process will take place on 17 January 2018 from 8 am to 12 pm. This is the only way to get into the programme. Supplementary Exams This is a solid option. You will be able to write supplementary exams if: Supplementary exams can be written at no extra cost. *Please note: You will need to provide documentary evidence if you were absent from the final exams. What if you don't qualify to write the Supplementary Exams? No worries. You have the following options: TVET College Vocational training is another option. TVET colleges allow students who have not passed Matric to receive a vocational or occupational qualification. This means that you will receive education and training towards a specific range of employment possibilities. Here's how: There are many TVET colleges to choose from. Click here to see a list of all the available TVET colleges in South Africa.