ANALYSIS The ANC's leadership race is too tight to call -- and it will remain that way until day three of the governing party's elective conference at Nasrec in Johannesburg when the results of the leadership race will be announced. The conference starts on Saturday, 16 December 2017. Voting for the party leadership will take place the following day with the results expected on Monday, 18 December 2017. With only the ANC in Limpopo (Sunday) and KwaZulu-Natal (Monday) left to consolidate its branches' decisions ahead of Nasrec it seems that Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa is in the lead according to two metrics: (1) how many provincial delegates' support he claims and (2) the number of branch nominations he has secured. These numbers and figures can, however, merely be used as a yardstick of broad themes and, unlike for example during the US presidential elections where pollsters track movements every hour, cannot be relied upon to make a call one way or the other. The race between Rampahosa and Dlamini-Zuma was always going to be closely run and it is proving to be as nail-biting as expected. What you need to know about the voting procedure This in effect means that the process up until now is akin to a phoney war, sabre-rattling and braggadocio. There is no doubt that both camps -- as well that of the biggest minor candidate Zweli Mkhize -- are pulling out all the stops to (a) identify which branches will be sending delegates to Nasrec and (b) how to influence voting patterns. This can be done by appealing to delegates' conscience (the future of the ANC or the necessity of radical economic transformation) of by greasing palms (rumours have it that one vote can set candidates back R30,000 a pop). What do we know then? There is no scientifically sound way with which to make an accurate prediction of who is in the lead and who will win the leadership contest less than two weeks away from President Jacob Zuma's opening address at Nasrec. There are, however, a number of trends (many that have been predicted with some accuracy by analysts and experts): The road to Nasrec Ramaphosa: He will win if the contest remains clean, by which we mean that the credentials process (the auditing of delegates and their right to vote) is managed fairly and is procedurally sound. He will also win if the majority of ANC delegates agree with his message that the ANC needs to be rescued from state capture and corruption. But, more importantly, he will win if the KwaZulu-Natal vote is splintered and he can cut a palatable deal with Mabuza. Dlamini-Zuma: She will win if she gives Mabuza what he wants and gets the majority of support from KwaZulu-Natal. Mpumalanga, the majority of KwaZulu-Natal plus North West and the Free State will put her over the top -- easily. She isn't running on any clear message, apart from radical economic transformation and has for all intents and purposes been silent on the issue of state capture and corruption. It's a pure numbers campaign for her.   