Let's begin unpacking this sex-toy story... I know some of you remain sceptical and uncomfortable about the notion of sex toys. I adore seeing the faces of people who walk into my practice and ask for the Dr Eve Store. Some look like deer in the headlights: exposed and vulnerable, while others are playful –– just looking at the products fills them with glee. I think it is brave to purchase a sex toy; especially as, in my sex store, you have to actually talk about "sex" –– specifically, your own sexuality. My assistant and I will ask you penetrating questions, to ensure that you get the kind of product that really matches your current sexual desire. If you are there with a partner, it may be the first time that you actually verbalise your sexual desires. I'm thinking about the man who confidently requested a vaginal vibrator for his partner. I pulled out my current favourite, namely Wonderlust Serenity, and saw her face drop. She was eyeing the clitoral vibrators, of course. She knew she needed clitoral stimulation to become orgasmic. So I grabbed my top-of-the-range, best-of-all-time clitoral vibe –– namely, the brand-new Womaniser 2Go vibe. This lipstick-shaped vibe is a vacuum-pump device -- merely place it in your vulva and lie back as its suction arouses your clitoral area. He got a quick lesson on female orgasms, too... I sell a product called Zestra. It is a clitoral stimulant. This is for the woman who has sluggish orgasms, no orgasms, or low interest in sexuality. Placing a drop of this clinically tested stimulant on your clitoral area engorges, lubricates and awakens sexual interest. I think grabbing a bottle of Zestra, or a more budget-friendly stimulant like System Jo Atomic Clitoral Stimulation Gel, is a gentle and sensitive way of letting your partner know that you really would love more arousing touches. As a man, how do you tell a woman that you want anal play? Of course –– buy an anal sex toy! The top of the range toy here is the We Vibe Ditto. It's sophisticated, with a remote control, and it vibrates –– which helps relax the anus so that it expands. Of course, it should not be used without the necessary anal lube, and I recommend the fabulousSystem Jo Anal Premium Warming. Even though sex toys have been normalised through media, made accessible online and in brick-and-mortar stores, there remain myths that undermine their importance in your sexuality. For example, "My penis can't do the job, if she wants a toy". Or, "I'll become addicted to the toy". And even, "I'll be replaced by her toys". The fact is that toys are add-ons, and in certain circumstances really necessary. My top reasons clients should use sex toys: In summary, sex toys are IT. Get one for every female member of your family. You will be the hit of the season! Go see my new website, just launched, for your Christmas pleasure and entertainment.