January is a month for resolutions. I, for one, have never seen any of “The Godfather” movies, a failing I’ve hidden for many years. But now that Netflix is adding the trilogy on New Year’s Day, I can finally remedy that. I’ve long heard there’s something about a horse and that the third movie is terrible. Soon I can know for sure. Along with “The Godfather,” Netflix is adding many classic movies on Jan. 1, including “Breakfast at Tiffany’s,” “Caddyshack,” “The Shawshank Redemption,” “The Truman Show” and what appears to be every single “Bring It On” movie ever made. Also, “Sharknado 5: Global Swarming” and “Justin Bieber: Never Say Never.” Something for everybody. Throughout the month, along with the many movies and television shows from the past that the service is adding, Netflix has a few particularly notable originals. Jerry Seinfeld is moving his show “Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee” (formerly on Crackle) to Netflix for a new season. “Grace and Frankie” is back for Season 4. And Jack Black stars in an original movie called “The Polka King.” The service is losing some notable titles including “Forrest Gump,” “Mean Girls” and “Pulp Fiction.” If you are a particular fan of Seasons 14 through 17 of “Law & Order: Special Victims Unit,” you’re also out of luck. Check out the full list below. Unique titles I don’t recognize, but you should check out:  “Chef & My Fridge: 2017” “Mustang Island” “Trolls: The Beat Goes On!”  Best bad movie: “National Treasure” Most say nothing title: “Definitely, Maybe” Most say everything title: “2018 Olympic Winter Games Preview: Meet Team USA & Go for the Gold” Title with a ridiculous use of capitalization: “DEVILMAN crybaby”  Most celebration of a hate symbol: “The Dukes of Hazzard” This is part of Streamline, HuffPost’s weekly recommendation service for streaming shows and movies. Every Saturday, Streamline ranks the best shows to watch online, including a specific focus on Netflix.  Jan. 1 Jan. 2 Jan. 5 Jan. 6 Jan. 8 Jan. 10 Jan. 12 Jan. 14 Jan. 15 Jan. 16  Jan. 17 Jan. 18 Jan. 19 Jan. 23 Jan. 24 Jan. 25 Jan. 26 Jan. 28 Jan. 29 Jan. 30 Jan. 31   Jan. 1 Jan. 3 Jan. 4 Jan. 5 Jan. 15 Jan. 30