Kate Upton just scored a three-peat. The 24-year-old model and actress was named Sports Illustrated's Swimsuit Edition cover girl for the third time and earned herself three different covers for the 2017 issue. The 2017 SI Swimsuit Covers have been revealed. Welcome back, @KateUpton! Follow the link for more photos and video https://t.co/4cszjybbVp pic.twitter.com/y7TguJdPVD Though Upton looks gorgeous on the covers, people couldn't get over one tiny little problem with them ― that she isn't actually wearing a true swimsuit on any of them. Happy that Kate Upton is the SI Swimsuit cover model but it's funny that of 3 cover photos, not one is an actual swimsuit you could wear. @SI_Swimsuit @KateUpton Those aren't even swimsuits @KateUpton @SI_Swimsuit congrats! But 3 covers of a "swimsuit issue" and only one half of a swimsuit in total, got me I love that Kate upton is on 3 SI covers and on all 3 combined she's wearing half a swimsuit Elle Magazine pointed it out in the headline of their Upton article: Kate Upton is pretty much naked on three different Sport's Illustrated Swimsuit Issue covers, no swimsuit in sight: https://t.co/4dT0mGwcyT? pic.twitter.com/vov8PR4SdW And CNN's Jake Tapper even chimed in for some unknown reason: @KateUpton those bathing suits look impractical Perez Hilton might've said it best when he broke down her "swimsuits" cover by cover: "One cover (above) has her topless with her bottom half clad in a bunch of necklaces, basically," he wrote. "A second cover features her in a bunch of string made to resemble a maillot, while a third one finally has her in honest-to-God bikini bottoms and a long-sleeved embellished top." As we all know, the Swimsuit Edition hasn't ever really been about the swimsuits at all. If we're all getting really nit-picky, there's usually a body paint section in the magazine, so those don't even begin to count as bathing suits. If people are going to take issue with anything in the Swimsuit Edition, let's figure out why Serena Williams or 63-year-old Christie Brinkley didn't land the cover. Especially since Upton herself said this issue's theme was about "every woman of every age and every body type being accepted. It was inspiring to be asked to be a part of that issue." The HuffPost Lifestyle newsletter will make you happier and healthier, one email at a time. Sign up here.