It's no secret that British author J.K. Rowling does not like President Donald Trump or his policies. "When a man this ignorant & easy to manipulate gets within sniffing distance of the nuclear codes, it's everyone's business," she tweeted one month before the 2016 election, defending her habit of using social media to take a stance on controversies surrounding the former reality star. Examples abound: Trump says 'just words, folks.' It's his accusation and his defence. Words don't matter. Facts don't matter. If they don't, we're all lost. The results of the election didn't stop her from speaking out on issues she cares about. And Trump's latest executive order targeting Muslims and refugees is no exception. In fact, it's gotten the author into a retweeting kick in which she's shared gems like this: I find it odd how the Bible is super relevant if you have to bake a cake for some gays but not if desperate people need your help. Rowling has also been sharing recent responses to a Trump Hotels tweet from 2011 that asked for a "favorite travel memory." Tell us your favorite travel memory - was it a picture, a souvenir, a sunset? We'd love to hear it! Here are a couple of her favorite replies to the hotel chain's callout: At 18 my father fled the Nazis. 2 strangers from a youth hostel put up £200 for his UK visa. They saved his life. https://t.co/kg3IlYXp0C When my grandmother came from Aleppo to Ellis Island & was welcomed to make a better life for herself in the USA. Pass it on... https://t.co/YRuebiummT And when Trump tweeted this critique of European policies ... Our country needs strong borders and extreme vetting, NOW. Look what is happening all over Europe and, indeed, the world - a horrible mess! Rowling re-tweeted a clever response. Life in Germany is super terrible with universal health care, low unemployment, low crime, free education and a welcoming attitude to others https://t.co/2oyFF76YhY The author hasn't just been retweeting, though ― she's been doing her share of fire-starting, too. On Sunday she shared a 2015 tweet by current Vice President Mike Pence, which read: "Calls to ban Muslims from entering the U.S. are offensive and unconstitutional." She commented on Pence's message by pairing it with a simple Bible quote: 'For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul?'
Matthew 16:26 https://t.co/cYFglX3yRW And with that, Trump supporters came out of the woodwork. But Rowling handled each one with masterful rebuttals: I think you mean 'shudder', unless there's a biblical character called Shutter I've forgotten. pic.twitter.com/x1uOy6n3BH On Monday, she tweeted a Winston Churchill quote after receiving a number of hateful messages: "You have enemies? Good. That means you've stood up for something, sometime in your life." -- Winston Churchill And, of course, she got trolling response: Quote very fitting to @realDonaldTrump. He stands up for something very very good and you are his enemy Mrs Shitty Writer. https://t.co/WjRAsXt4tB But Rowling is not afraid of a duel. She hit right back: *sighs* Well, who knows? If I try harder, I might be reincarnated as a lonely virgin hiding behind a cartoon frog. pic.twitter.com/EbocdxfJ5o And she keeps going. Well, the fumes from the DVDs might be toxic and I've still got your money, so by all means borrow my lighter. pic.twitter.com/kVoi8VGEoK Damn girl, you're on fire!