Trans models may slowly be more and more commonplace on catwalks and magazines in the UK and USA, but for many places around the world this is not the case. Now a 32-year-old Nepalese model, Ajali Lama, has been chosen out of hundreds of women to walk in Mumbai's Lakmé Fashion Week, the first trans person ever to have ever done so. Now here are five things you need to know about this rising star. #womenspecial #festival #teej A photo posted by Anjali Lama (@anjali_lama_official) on Sep 4, 2016 at 8:27am PDT Given the name Navin Waiba at birth, Lama grew up as part of a family of nine, in a rural farming village in Nepal, Nuwakot. She decided to move to the capital, Kathmandu after graduating from high school. A photo posted by Anjali Lama (@anjali_lama_official) on Aug 19, 2015 at 9:16am PDT Lama told The Washington Post that she began her transition after watching a Nepalese television show called 'Struggle'. She said: "That day I understood that I am also that kind of person." But her transition wasn't easy, Lama says she was teased by colleagues and customers at the hotel where she worked: "Mentally I was tortured." She has also revealed that her brothers and father have not supported her transition: "He'll never see me as a daughter," she said. Editorial shoot for ELLE India with Daniel @danielbauermakeupandhair had a great experience and awesome time with you.Thanks to @elleindiaofficial for the shoot A photo posted by Anjali Lama (@anjali_lama_official) on Jan 25, 2017 at 6:40am PST In December 2016, Lama was chosen to appear in Elle India, after it had been announced that she would be walking at fashion week. Selfie with MissPink2016 winners #TransBeautyQueens A photo posted by Anjali Lama (@anjali_lama_official) on May 17, 2016 at 9:53am PDT Lama was aided through her transition by a charity in Kathmandu, after a chance meeting when she was 19-years-old. She told The Washington Post that she saw a group of transgender women heading to a club. Approaching them she asked for advice. They gave her the phone number for a community office for LGBT affairs. Two days later, she visited the organisation, and later became a member of staff in 2006. The first transgender model to walk an Indian fashion runway. Anjali Lama for #LakmeFashionWeek A video posted by ELLE India (@elleindiaofficial) on Jan 20, 2017 at 4:44am PST Organisers of the event told Reuters why they chose Lama, saying: "[We want] to take these conversations forward, shining light on some these issues and bringing them to the national consciousness."