People say the darndest things sometimes, and when it comes to interracial dating, it seems they just can't help themselves. Last week, we wrote two stories on the things black women hear when dating white people and the reaction was incredible. While some people seemed to appreciate us tackling a topic that affects so many, others were quick to dismiss it as racist and unnecessary. Our political history fuels the scrutiny of interracial relationships. After all, South Africa is the home of apartheid, the Group Areas Act, which corralled different racial groups into different geographical areas, and the Immorality Act, which made it illegal for black and white people to marry or have sex. And just because we're 23 years into democracy, doesn't mean people's minds have changed. We asked white women to share their experiences too and it turned out to be uglier than we could imagine.  Of course I can, clearly I've chosen not to be with them.  So you know my life better than I do? Mmmkay.  And you would know this how, exactly?  You're rude AF. Go clean your mouth.  This isn't a real thing and you know it.  Because I'd fit right in with every white family in the world? We're just one giant homogenous group?  You're so intuitive. How did you come up with that?  Let's assume there's nothing in your head then?  Now you're just being stupid.  Uuuurgh. 🙄  Ever stop to think I actually want to be with this person?  If my vagina was magic, I would probably be with some super famous man or something. No?  While the rest of us are fighting against slut shaming, this is what you're doing? OK.  Is your hair greasy all the time?  I can't believe this. Also you would be charged with murder.  Just leave.  Would you like me to find out how Hitler or Verwoerd are?  What religion are you?  You're saying children are edible? You're problematic.  This is so lame and you know it.  This doesn't deserve an answer. February is the month of love. At the Huffington Post South Africa, we take a look at how South Africans are finding and holding on to love. Author Shubnum Khan tells us about how cross-border romances are made or broken, tech journalist Nafisa Akabor looks at how social media replaced your meet-cute and lifestyle editor Sarah Koopman has some advice on how to get away from that tired old dinner-and-a-movie setup. Find them all and more here, or try these.