The 59th annual Grammy Awards on Sunday were filled with musical moments, big winners and lots of glitz and glamour. The ceremony at Los Angeles' Staples Center included a few hiccups and awkward moments, too. Here are the top things you may have missed from the show. The late-night host showed off his rapping chops during a monologue that included mentions of Rihanna, Prince and Drake, along with a shot at President Donald Trump. Chance the Rapper walked away with the Best New Artist honor, topping Kelsea Ballerini, The Chainsmokers, Maren Morris and Anderson .Paak. "Glory be to God. I claimed this victory in the name of the Lord," he said onstage. "I want to thank God for my mother and my father who supported me since I was young." The rapper also picked up wins for Best Rap Album and Best Rap Performance. Beyoncé, who's pregnant with twins, graced the Grammy stage to sing "Love Drought" and "Sandcastles," while husband Jay Z and their 5-year-old daughter, Blue Ivy, looked on from the audience. "Do you remember being born?" Beyonce said at the start of the performance, which sparked a flurry of excitement from fellow celebrities across social media. A batch of stars joined Corden for what looked like an impromptu version of his "Carpool Karaoke" bit. Jennifer Lopez, Neil Diamond, John Legend and even Blue Ivy joined in for a version of Diamond's "Sweet Caroline." The legendary singer, who died in January 2016 from cancer, won all five awards for which he was nominated, including Best Rock Song for "Blackstar," which was announced during the telecast at the Staples Center in Los Angeles on Sunday. Bowie's co-winners, pictured above, accepted the pre-telecast awards on his behalf. The British singer stopped smack dab in the middle of her George Michael tribute, dropping the F-bomb because she wasn't happy with the way the performance was going. "I can't mess this up for him," Adele said, referring to the late singer. She later apologized for swearing on live television while accepting the Song of the Year honor for "Hello." The rockers and pop star hit the Grammys stage for a joint performance, but experienced a few hiccups when Metallica singer James Hetfield's mic malfunctioned. But he took it in stride, joining Gaga on her mic once he realized his voice couldn't be heard. Rock on. Adele swooped up the last two awards handed out Sunday night: Record of the Year and Album of the Year. During her acceptance speech, she couldn't help but express her love for Beyoncé, also nominated in both categories. "I adore you. You move my soul everyday ... I adore you and I want you to be my mommy," Adele said. Sigh. Don't we all.