Supermodel Gigi Hadid has found herself at the center of the internet’s attention once again ― but people aren’t so adoring this time around. The 21-year-old model is being accused of acting racist after a video surfaced over the weekend that showed her appearing to mock Asian people. In a now-deleted video shared over the weekend by her younger sister Bella, Gigi Hadid laughs and squints her eyes while holding up a cookie that appears to have the face of a samurai or a Buddha. Bella Hadid scrubbed the video from her Instagram account, but Twitter user zaynzayns, a fan account for Gigi Hadid’s boyfriend, singer Zayn Malik, reposted it. It’s not clear what Hadid was trying to achieve with her brief expression, but many people were quick to deem it as racist against Asian people. Many people found it especially insensitive because Malik is part Asian: The former One Direction star’s father is British Pakistani. @GiGiHadid you know your bf is half Asian right? lol you're racist Fans of Hadid went on zaynzayns’ Twitter account to defend the model, saying that she was only making fun of the cookie. They also pointed out the possibility that Hadid may not have known the cookie looked like an Asian person. @zainzayns @GiGiHadid she only made the face on her cookie or whatever that is but look you got many RTs mission accomplished @zainzayns @GiGiHadid she was pretending to be the cookie or whatever that is. you guys cant handle anything lately Others quickly snapped back, reminding people why that type of squinting could be perceived as offensive. Neither of the Hadid sisters addressed the video’s criticism on social media. Gigi Hadid’s representatives did not return The Huffington Post’s request for comment. Ironically, Bella Hadid’s video and its subsequent backlash surfaced during the same weekend Vogue China released its March cover featuring Gigi Hadid. #VogueCover Our March issue presents 8 covers featuring 10 new supermodels who represent the beauty, confidence and attitude of now, with #GigiHadid being one of them. @gigihadid @angelica_cheung  #Vogue封面 本期我们把镜头对准了个性鲜明，有态度，充满自信的新生代超模，Gigi Hadid正是其中之一。 Photographer: Patrick Demarchelier (@patrickdemarchelier ) Stylist: Daniela Paudice ​​​(@danielapaudice ) A photo posted by VOGUE CHINA (@voguechina) on Feb 3, 2017 at 8:29pm PST  