Asians were definitely not well-represented at the Oscars, with Dev Patel being the sole Asian nominee in an acting category. But that doesn’t mean they were silent during Sunday’s Academy Awards ceremony. In a night that saw Jackie Chan recognized as a Lifetime Achievement Award honoree, and Warren Beatty read out the wrong Best Picture winner, Asian Twitter got lit. Check out some of its realest tweets about the Oscars below. Warren Beatty just pulled a Steve Harvey, and I could not be happier. #Oscars pause. The #Oscars put Jackie Chan in the balcony? JACKIE CHAN IN THE NOSE BLEED SEATS?!?!?! D.I.S.R.E.S.P.E.C.T.F.U.L. So yeah they gonna blame those three little Asian kids from Price Waterhouse Coopers now right #Oscars2017 here's how you can pick up sunny pawar without it being weird and racist 🙃 pic.twitter.com/mCvlAJbujO So many Asian ppl at the oscars tonight so exciting pic.twitter.com/5A4nh2Zou4 la la land continuing to lose awards pic.twitter.com/7nISJR0cWt He said "John Cho" and my head snapped up so fast I almost hurt myself Legend Jackie Chan, panda ambassador of the world, shines on the red carpet... meets Riz Ahmed... wow #Oscars pic.twitter.com/gxyKyHwdhi Dev Patel took his mom to the Oscars. Brown boys, take notes. pic.twitter.com/xXmyjGgmA0 Quran verse dropped at #Oscars America hasn't ended. Constitution not replaced by Sharia. Statute of Liberty not wearing hijab. All is well. What happened with Best Picture is what needs to happen for all #Oscars. "Oopise. We mean to honor folks of color." Hi Mr. Trump,I know you're a movie fan. Do you realize that a Muslim actor just won an Oscar? Also, he's black.Sweet dreams! pic.twitter.com/Guo2VGf3TU I mean COME ON! This is gonna be my new twitter header photo now brb #oscars pic.twitter.com/ttcTEphE0j Legit thought JT said "I've got this feeling / inside my balls"(Husband: "What is wrong with you?") GIVE JOHN CHO THE LEAD IN EVERYTHING FOREVER https://t.co/iMmuBNm6Ai A black man. A Muslim. In a film about the life & struggles of a young gay man. 1st #Oscars award of the night. Hell, yeah. We are all so tired, so tired, of being told our names are not real names, @jimmykimmel.Yours,Andy Ghiradelli