This blog post forms part of a debate between Progressive Professionals Forum president Mzwanele Manyi and Huffington Post SA editor-at-large Ferial Haffajee, on the constitutionalism and implementation of the Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment Bill. You can read Ferial's post here. - blogs editor. From the outset let me start by making it abundantly clear that scare tactics like Gupta-gevaar simply do not work with me. I am a firm believer in the constitution with its imperfections and I am a creature of rule of law, justice and fairness. People like me who are serial victims of trial by white monopoly capital (WMC) media are able to see the hypocrisy of mainstream media and its agenda to promote WMC interests. Your darling, Advocate Thuli Madonsela FAILED in her State of Capture dossier to arrive at adverse findings against the Guptas and as we speak, there is no court of law that has found Guptas guilty of any crime. Only mainstream WMC media and banks have tried them and found them guilty in the courts of newsrooms and boardrooms. The constitution of South Africa says the country belongs to all who live in it, and everyone is equal before law, but clearly none of this applies to the Guptas, according to WMC mainstream media and their supporters. On the Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment bill (FIC bill), the Progressive Professionals Forum position has been reduced to a "Gupta-supporting Manyi" issue. Again, this is a tired strategy to try to isolate and destroy vocal opponents of WMC. I must hasten to add that this WMC inspired strategy will continue to fail. The PPF position on the FIC Bill has been very clear and consistent. Except for the dissolution of the Counter Money Laundering Advisory Council in the objects of the bill, the PPF supports ALL the objectives of the bill. The single issue that PPF has with the FIC Bill is how it opens the door for unconstitutional applications by agents who are not duly appointed law enforcement. The constitutionality of these amendments must be subject to a test at the Constitutional Court if the National Assembly insists on passing this bill without the necessary amendments to address these concerns. Parliament should not surrender to the banks the rights and constitutional obligations of the security cluster to protect the citizens of this country from any illicit financial dealings and terrorism activities. Banks should not be allowed to be prosecutors, judges and executioners at the same time. Banks do not have the moral authority to be entrusted with this responsibility. Some of the remedies should include the following: In conclusion, government should not be rushed to pass this bill for two reasons, money laundering, corruption and terrorism are already criminal offences that are prosecutable today and thus no impression should be created that there is a vacuum on the law enforcement side. Notwithstanding the various periodic updates that our financial institutions should provide to FATF, the bottom line is that the next inspection by FATF is only in October/November 2019. PPF is of the view that this big rush by the banks to have this law passed without delay is informed by the fact that the banks want to shield themselves from their unlawful conduct of implementing the bill even before it is promulgated into law.