Whether you're the best athlete of all time i.e. Serena Williams or a revered actress like Hlubi Mboya, when you are a black woman dating a white person, somebody somewhere will have something to say about it. Our political history fuels the scrutiny of interracial relationships. After all, South Africa is the home of apartheid, the Group Areas Act, which corralled different racial groups into different geographical areas, and the Immorality Act, which made it illegal for black and white people to marry or have sex. But it's 2017 and no one today should have to explain their dating choices or their sex lives. Still, no matter how many times you explain, there are some people who insist on asking questions that inspire all the eye-rolls.  We asked black women about the strangest things they were asked when they dated white men. We thought we knew what we were in for, but we were never ready.  Uh... the same as sex with any new person?  No, we don't know. Is a white person from overseas really less likely to be racist than a white South African?  I don't know what you ... Actually, this doesn't even deserve a response.  Seriously, parents could hate anyone.  They could be black and asleep AF. Next question please?  What does hygiene have to do with race?  You'd better stop right there.  So what you're saying is there has to be something wrong with a white person who's into black people?  Stop. Read a book. I'm black. I can't be racist.  This is just ridiculous. Walk away.  No. Just no!  If you liked this, here's some more: 7 More WTF Things Black Women Hear When Dating White People  Share this slide:   February is the month of love. At the Huffington Post South Africa, we take a look at how South Africans are finding and holding on to love. Author Shubnum Khan tells us about how cross-border romances are made or broken, tech journalist Nafisa Akabor looks at how social media replaced your meet-cute and lifestyle editor Sarah Koopman has some advice on how to get away from that tired old dinner-and-a-movie setup. Find them all and more here, or try these.