Blue Ivy might just be following in the big musical footsteps of her of mum and dad, Beyoné and JAY-Z. Well, at least that's what we're hoping after hearing leaked audio of her rapping on a bonus track from JAY-Z's recently dropped album "4:44". Blue Ivy rapping on 4:44 pic.twitter.com/jC7PpJWg5a The reactions on Twitter are priceless. People are so proud of baby girl even though on the most part, no one knows what she's actually saying. Blue Ivy has a feature on an album that went platinum in less than a week, and she's only at five years old. She even has her own fanbase. Beyoncé has "The BeyHive", Rihanna has "The Navy" and now Blue has "The Ivy League". Could this really be what she's saying? Blue Ivy coming out with her album entitled "apple juice." But for now, here's her bars on 4:44👍🏾 pic.twitter.com/0hI6u0rTCW  Even if it isn't we don't care because whatever she is saying, it's provocative. These are some of our favourite reactions.  TL: So what do you think of Blue Ivy's freestyle?Me: pic.twitter.com/YFxfEM42vb Blue Ivy: "everything is shaka, everything is flacka" Me: pic.twitter.com/SfNI9izxMi Blue Ivy said she never seen a ceiling in her whole life...meaning she don't believe in limits #StayWoke "boom Chaka Laka....everything in Chaka" - Blue Ivy"I'm EVERY woman, it's all IN ME" - Chaka Khan pic.twitter.com/KahqlnHtnE Blue Ivy: "doitlooklikeiwasleftoff444" pic.twitter.com/Lhdqt0MSx7 BLUE IVY'S FANBASE IS THE IVY LEAGUE! pic.twitter.com/PZOrYZnXH8 Me not understanding but still vibing to Blue Ivy's freestyle pic.twitter.com/7ttIpYTtrZ Heard Blue Ivy's freestyle and had to fix the cover. pic.twitter.com/SY5LMBDObS I really thought Wild Thoughts was gonna be my summer jam but Blue Ivy just dropped that freestyle and now I'm like pic.twitter.com/nDPhS4sDnd Jay Z: Only rapper to rewrite history without a pen...Blue Ivy: Hold my sippy cup#ivyleague pic.twitter.com/qAKunx1PyJ Blue Ivy: Everything a singaaa everything a shacka, everything a shacka. boom shaka laka, boom shaka laka. pic.twitter.com/ZakzacXQdf When Kanye realizes it's time to put North West in the studio after hearing Blue Ivy... pic.twitter.com/18A671geK1 Blue Ivy: BOOM SHACKALACKAMe: pic.twitter.com/k5jdy40Zpr Blue Ivy: "Never seen a didnsusnsidjdjdrjdj in my whole life Me: pic.twitter.com/KTmEKqHBxm .@BET, listen up. Next year, you're gonna give Blue Ivy her THINGS. Best Female Hip Hop Artist is HERS in 2018. Understood? pic.twitter.com/ZlHvzpEGbb When Blue Ivy said "boom shaka laka, boom Shaka Laka" pic.twitter.com/1GZXxqFaWa  