Blac Chyna secured a temporary restraining order against her ex-fiancé Rob Kardashian on Monday morning during a court hearing in Los Angeles. The restraining order will remain in place until the next hearing on August 8. "I would like to first and foremost thank the judge for granting me this restraining order to protect me and I'm just going to get back to co-parenting Dream," Chyna said in front of reporters after the hearing. According to a pool reporter who was allowed into the court room, Chyna's attorney requested at the hearing that the exhibits in the case not be made public because of their explicit nature, which the judge agreed to. The judge granted the restraining order less than a week after Kardashian posted a series of explicit photos of Chyna on his Instagram account, and then reposted them after the photo-sharing platform deleted the images. The posts led to questions about whether he had violated California's "revenge porn" law. Two days later, high-profile attorney Lisa Bloom announced that she would be seeking a restraining order against Kardashian on behalf of Chyna, who is the mother of Kardashian's baby daughter, Dream. During an interview with ABC News that aired Monday, Chyna said she felt "betrayed" and "devastated" when she saw the photos last week. "The moral of the story is he doesn't respect me, so if you can't respect me, you have to respect the law," she said. Famed lawyer Robert Shapiro, who is representing Kardashian, had told TMZ before the hearing that Kardashian views his posts last week as "a spontaneous reaction that he regrets." Speaking to reporters after the the hearing, Shapiro apologized on behalf of Kardashian and said, "Our primary interest going forward for Mr. Kardashian is the health and welfare of the baby." Chyna and Kardashian's relationship was tumultuous almost from the moment they revealed they were dating in January 2016. Within months, they had split up, gotten back together, become engaged and announced they were expecting a child. Then, nearly a year later, the engagement was off. TMZ reported early Monday that both Chyna and Kardashian plan to make additional allegations of abuse against one another. Later in the day, Chyna released a statement to People in which she said Kardashian has tried to "manipulate" her in recent months by repeatedly threatening suicide and showing her a gun. "In one text, Rob said, 'So I can at least die with knowing' and then followed-up with a question. In another text Rob said, 'That's why I can't do this and it's killing me to the point where I don't even have a purpose,'" she explained in the statement.