Food delivery drivers were among the first to rush to the aid of victims of last night's acid attacks in London, photos and videos have revealed. Police are investigating after five people in east London had acid thrown at them in less than 90 minutes, with the "linked" moped attacks taking place across Hackney, Stoke Newington and Islington. One victim has been left with "life-changing injuries" after being doused with the corrosive liquid, officers said. A 16-year-old boy has since been arrested on suspicion of grievous bodily harm and robbery following the attacks. But images and footage recorded at the scene reveal that Deliveroo and UberEATS drivers were among the first to help those who had acid thrown at them. One video appears to show delivery drivers dousing a victim's eyes with water as police try to gather details about the attack. Another #AcidAttack
THIS HAS TO STOP!! pic.twitter.com/HYqKfSwtKV Other photos show dozens of delivery workers gathered together behind police tape, with witnesses on social media saying they "rallied round" following One Twitter user wrote: "#acidattack outside my house last night, amazing seeing all the Deliveroo and Uber drivers pulling together." Police and ambulances on Hackney/Queensbridge Road, possible acid/petrol attack. Lots of @UberEATS@Deliveroo drivers rallied round pic.twitter.com/ndAtXV9Kj8 #acidattack outside my house last night , amazing seeing all the deliveroo and uber drivers pulling together .. pic.twitter.com/bhSJwlqPKC #deliveroo#acidattack#e2 apparent acid attack and moped theft brings 30+ deliveroo drivers in support pic.twitter.com/ypkZEwktwu One Twitter user suggested that some delivery drivers had put out a call for help to their colleagues, writing: "What no-one is reporting is the amazing networked response from fellow Uber/Deliveroo drivers using WhatsApp." A representative from UberEATS confirmed that some of its drivers swung into action to help those affected. "We were shocked to hear about the horrific acid attacks that happened last night," they said. "Some couriers who work with UberEATS were in the area and able to help where they could. We are trying to contact couriers so we can help the police get any information that will assist their investigation." The news comes after a series of reports from the Hackney Gazette that delivery drivers are being targeted by moped thieves in Hackney, with some claiming they no longer feel safe working after 9.30pm. Witnesses on social media have suggested that a Deliveroo driver may have been one of those doused in acid during the spate of attacks. A spokesperson from the company told HuffPost UK: "We are working with the police in the area. We have heard the same reports [that a Deliveroo driver was a victim] but we haven't had any direct contact with any riders to confirm if anyone was involved. "Obviously we are horrified by the reports - it's so, so shocking." In a later statement, a Deliveroo spokesperson said these kinds of attacks "have no place in civilised society". "We will work with the authorities in any way we can to help bring the perpetrators to justice. "Deliveroo prioritises the safety and wellbeing of all our riders and so we are urgently speaking to our local teams and to the police about how we can work together to stop criminals from targeting scooter riders."