Rapper Stormzy doesn't find anything funny about being mistaken for Romelu Lukaku. Ireland's Evening Herald newspaper on Monday mistook the London rapper for Manchester United's new signing Lukaku in their sports back pages. Manchester United announced Lukaku would join the English Premier League side on Monday. The paper published the story alongside a photo of rapper Stormzy. The Irish Herald have published a picture of Stormzy instead of Romelu Lukaku on their back page. pic.twitter.com/sdRqjtp6l9  After the blunder made the rounds on social media, Stormzy came out saying he didn't want to be a "party pooper", but was unhappy about the mistake. I don't find none of this funny btw 🤷🏿‍♂️don't wanna sound like the party pooper who missed the joke...  Stormzy is not impressed. pic.twitter.com/MqACe4faLF  The prolific goal scorer managed 25 goals last season for the Premier League's Everton. In a transfer record for Britain, Manchester United, which came sixth in the league last season, bought Lukaku for £75 million. In May last year, Stormzy launched the new Manchester United kit with David Beckham. RT Football__Tweet: Beckham x Stormzy. pic.twitter.com/euuT9reciL pic.twitter.com/SKGCawoJII  People on Twitter highlighted the newsroom's mistake, knocking the paper's credibility. You're telling me a news room full of people with journalism degrees accidentally think Stormzy is Lukaku? Just shut up man.  It's not you, it's the other one. #STORMZY #Lukaku pic.twitter.com/TdZfCTk6Q1  When Lukaku meets Stormzy pic.twitter.com/sXeMwFztNb  Man like Lukaku or Man like Stormzy? 🤔 #Lukaku #ManUtd pic.twitter.com/WKQP6Mnqhi  Lukaku and Stormzy's parents need to have a sit down 😳 pic.twitter.com/06Ii2qT6Go  Scary the similarities between Stormzy and Lukaku. #mufc pic.twitter.com/d4yRfne3ZO  Meanwhile, Lukaku is thrilled to be joining Manchester United. First of all i want to thank God for this opportunity. Delighted and blessed to be part of the greatest club in the world @ManUtd pic.twitter.com/dWrQjHkH5a 