So, a study conducted by an extra-marital dating site says that South African married women are the least sexually satisfied. The study "peaked into the bedrooms of its 6,117 female members". So it's already safe to say, fam: it's nowhere near representing the millions of married women in our country. Nonetheless, the-always-necessary-conversation about sex was had on Twitter -- and boy, was it spicy! Perhaps Twitter is the better place to get a sense of whether women in this country are getting it good, or not. Here are our top 11 takeaways from the discussion. He he he... Who are they sleeping with? 🤔 https://t.co/5CTVlPBCeO  People feeling themselves. Hhhaa!!!whoever wrote that article must come visit SA sizakumbonisa kahle  At least this bit of information might just be the right propeller for some...  ...clearly not for Phorogotlho, though. That's because SA women likes to lie there like sex dolls and expect their partners to do everything. No participation at all Dear Jerry's person -- askies. She must know my limits, 26⅓ mins is all I got. If she doesn't cum before I expire then is her personal problem.   Haibo, Champlito? "Dont pull my hair its a wig"
"Skang pitsa baby" (Don't call me baby)
"Hauwa ko dimu" (Arggg, I must go on top?)
"Awa fetsa hong suna" (Are you going to finish kissing me?)

This and many more how we gonna concentrate?? 🤷🏾‍♂️ https://t.co/ejn45fCfgv   Spicy much? It makes sense because they can't find ... https://t.co/NX8Qh2Bs6c  Maybe this is why whatever "..." is, is hard to find. All the energy is spent fighting for land.  Diet, gents, diet! Of course South African women are the least sexually satisfied women bc South African men don't give them quality sex due to their diet.  And just to be clear... *straight women https://t.co/M0zzli3WUY  look i'm fixing this: 'heterosexual south african women are the least satisfied'. don't thank me.  Tbo Touch, we see you. The only difference between being sexually satisfied and not being sexually satisfied, is your mental disposition. 😊 https://t.co/DJUEg4WGt7  