Do you have a hard time remembering what you ate for dinner the night before? That won’t happen with these memorable meals. From a crazy-delicious Crustless Broccoli Quiche to a one-pot White Chicken Chili, you’ll be thinking about these simple suppers long after the dishes are done. 1. Crustless Broccoli Quiche There’s really only one way to put it: this quiche is insanely delicious. And I promise you won’t miss the crust! It reheats beautifully so feel free to make it ahead or warm it up for tomorrow’s breakfast or lunch. GET THE RECIPE 2. 30-Minute Asian Beef Bowls This dish is a MAJOR family-pleaser and can be made in just 30 minutes from ordinary supermarket ingredients. And the beauty of “bowls” is that everyone can create their own. GET THE RECIPE 3. Grilled Cheese Sandwiches with Sun-Dried Tomato Pesto Sun-dried tomato pesto gives these grilled cheese sandwiches a gourmet twist. My son calls them “pizza paninis” since they taste like hot, crispy pizza sandwiches.  GET THE RECIPE 4. Thai Minced Chicken Lettuce Cups You’ll love these fresh, crisp lettuce cups filled with Thai-style minced chicken. Whenever I make it for dinner, I have to force myself to put the leftovers in the fridge right away before starting the dishes, otherwise I’ll finish them off while no one is watching.  GET THE RECIPE 5. Crispy Coconut Shrimp with Sweet Red Chili Sauce I’ve had Coconut Shrimp at many restaurants, but this homemade version beats them all. It’s remarkably easy to make: you can do all of the prep in advance, and the sauce comes straight out of a bottle.  GET THE RECIPE 6. Orecchiette with Sausage & Broccoli This delicious pasta dish is adapted from Lidia’s Italian Table by Lidia Bastianich. Not only is it quick and easy to make — 25 minutes tops — the whole family eats it up, broccoli and all. GET THE RECIPE 7. Baked Salmon with Pecan Panko Crust This dish takes a total of 20 minutes – 10 minutes to prepare and 10 minutes to bake – yet tastes like something you’d order at a fancy restaurant. It’s perfect for when you have company coming at the end of a long day (and you’re asking yourself, “What was I thinking?”) or on a busy weeknight when you have to hit the kitchen running. GET THE RECIPE 8.  Cashew Chicken You’ll toss that greasy Chinese food menu away after tasting this tender stir-fried chicken with roasted cashews in an authentic garlic sauce.  GET THE RECIPE 9. Ginger, Garlic & Chili Shrimp In this quick and easy recipe — adapted from The Splendid Table’s How To Eat Supper by Lynne Rossetto Kasper and Sally Swift — jumbo shrimp are bathed in a brine flavored with salt, sugar and chili powder, and then sautéed with loads of fresh ginger and garlic. It’s a dish that appeals to kids and adults alike.  GET THE RECIPE 10. Vietnamese Shredded Chicken Salad This salad is so satisfying, you can get away with serving it for dinner. It’s easy too: you simply shred a rotisserie chicken, chop some veggies, whisk the dressing, and dinner is done.   GET THE RECIPE 11. Broiled Spicy Chicken Thighs with Sweet & Tangy Honey Glaze Inspired by one of the most popular Cooking Light chicken recipes, these chicken thighs are delicious, family-friendly (they’re not too spicy), and incredibly easy to prepare. The chicken is seasoned with a homemade spice rub and then broiled with a sweet and tangy honey glaze. GET THE RECIPE 12. White Chicken Chili I’ve tried many white chicken chili recipes over the years, but none as satisfying as this one. The best part: it calls for a rotisserie chicken, making it a one-pot meal you can have on the dinner table in under an hour.  GET THE RECIPE