There is no sound worse than those first five notes of an alarm clock first thing in the morning. While some of us are the type to jolt out of bed with a smile on our faces, for others, mornings are the worst enemy. While I have a love-hate relationship with mornings, I have found that there are indeed ways to make mornings a little more bearable.Try out these five adjustments to your routine to make mornings your friend! 1. Mentally plan out your day. One way to combat the morning blues is to mentally plan out your day right when you wake up to prepare yourself for the day. Give yourself at least one little thing to look forward to each day, even if it's a cookie from your favorite place on your lunch break! 2. Meditate Meditation is one of the best ways to jumpstart your morning as it will clear your mind and relax your body before your day begins. Even just ten minutes of deep breathing exercises and focused mental thought can completely alter your mindset heading into the day. It's easy with the availability of apps and YouTube guided exercises out there. My favorite meditation app is called Headspace, which provides 10-minute sessions that leave you feeling relaxed, rejuvenated, and ready to have a great day! 3. Eat breakfast. This may sound like common sense but when you're on-the-go, sometimes it's easy to forget to eat first thing in the morning. Mom was right when she said "breakfast is the most important meal of the day." Be sure to grab a bite to eat right when you wake up to get your day going and kickstart your metabolism for the day. Without it, you will have less energy for the day and are more likely to crash during your afternoon meeting. Also, if you have a delicious plate of bacon and eggs in your near future, it'll give you a reason to get out of bed and get your day started. 4. Lay out your clothes the night before. There is something to be said about the mantra "look good, feel good." If you have your outfit ready in advance, you are more likely to feel confident and mentally prepared for the day. Whether it's your favorite pair of dark-wash jeans or your go-to black blazer, pick out clothes that you feel great in and there is no reason why you shouldn't have a great morning. 5. Carpool with a friend or co-worker to work, school, etc. Mornings are best when you share them with good company whether its carpooling to work or syncing up your morning coffee routine with a friend or co-worker. Sharing the first moments of the day with others will fuel your mind and let you ease into your day. Also, having a regimented morning routine with others will help ensure that you are on-time for work and that you have a reason to get up in the morning.