ANALYSIS The revolt against President Jacob Zuma has begun and Parliament is leading the charge. The deployment of Pravin Gordhan, unceremoniously dismissed by Zuma as minister of finance less than eight weeks ago, to the parliamentary portfolio committee on public enterprises was a strategic masterstroke by Jackson Mthembu, the African National Congress' chief whip. Gordhan, displaying his crisp, clinical and dispassionate articulation of the problems at hand, flayed the hapless Minister of Public Enterprises Lynne Brown and Ben Ngubane, the chairman of the Eskom board, during Tuesday's committee meeting about the Brian Molefe reappointment.  Given the fact that state owned enterprises – like Eskom, the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa, Transnet and the South African Airways – is the feeding trough of choice for rentseekers and those that wish to capture the state, Gordhan's deployment to the public enterprises committee is significant. He comes with an enormous amount of inside information, he knows the facts and figures inside out and he knows exactly where the bodies are buried. Brown, or any other bureaucrat, will not be able to hide from Gordhan's knowledge and piercing questions. He knows exactly how much money Eskom owes, he knows who it's owed to, he also knows all the detail about every dodgy deal the parastatal has entered into and he knows exactly down which road to lead MP's in order for the truth to emerge.  Mthembu – who publicly decried Gordhan's sacking by Zuma – seems to be preparing the caucus to go on the offensive. Discontent with Zuma and the party's leadership has been simmering among a significant number of the parliamentary caucus ever since they were forced to defend Nkandla and Gwede Mantashe, the ANC's secretary-general, twice had to quash resistance in the caucus ahead of two no-confidence debates. Gordhan, the ordinary backbencher, might be a game changer. He was brutal. He accused Brown, the Eskom board and senior executives of being part of a "conspiracy" to capture Eskom for the benefit of a few, adding "that's the reality . . . let's dispense with the technical questions". And he lifted the lid off his efforts to protect the fiscus and combat state capture, saying: Gordhan blasted Brown and her hangers-on, and in the process fired a volley of warning shots across the collective bows of bureaucrats everywhere – including ministers – that Mthembu's caucus is more than ready to do battle. Events in parliament were significant, but Cosatu's banning of Zuma from addressing events or meetings hosted by the trade union federation and ANC stalwarts' stoic insistence on a consultative conference was as important.  Cosatu – with its' president S'dumo Dlamini running the show – has been a loyal supporter of Zuma, until now. Bheki Ntshalintshali, Cosatu's general-secretary, seems to have isolated Dlamini within Cosatu and the organisation's decision that Zuma must go was reiterated at a special meeting of its central executive committee. "We no longer trust and support his leadership," Cosatu's statement read. Also on Tuesday, party elders under the leadership of the respected Murphy Morobe and former director-general in the presidency, the cleric Frank Chikane, said they remain insistent that the ANC's national executive committee (NEC) must call a consultative conference, independent of any other conferences scheduled for the year. And: Bloomberg reported ANC sources saying that Zuma's future will be up for discussion during the weekend's NEC meeting. Zuma is a political survivor. But even he won't be able to defend every front and every battlement. He is going to have to pick his battles carefully.