A medical examiner in Wayne County, Michigan, determined Thursday that singer Chris Cornell's death was a "suicide by hanging," the county announced on its Facebook page. The Soundgarden singer, 52, was found unresponsive on the bathroom floor of a hotel room at the MGM Grand Casino in Detroit early Thursday. He was reportedly pronounced dead at the scene, according to The New York Times. "When the units arrived they were met by a gentleman who indicated that Chris Cornell had been found in his room," police spokesman Michael Woody told the AP Thursday morning. "When officers went to the room they found Chris Cornell laying [sic] in his bathroom, unresponsive and he had passed away." Woody said there were "basic things observed at the scene" that led police to conduct an investigation. "We are at the beginning stages of the investigation and we can't say anything about the scene," Woody said. Cornell's wife had called a friend and asked that he check on Cornell after he performed at the Fox Theatre earlier in the night. The friend proceeded to force open the door and find the singer in the bathroom, leading to an anonymous call to 911 for help. #Detroit finally back to Rock City!!!! @soundgarden#nomorebullshitpic.twitter.com/BqXx9veFoD In a statement on Thursday, a representative for Cornell said that his family would appreciate if the public respect their privacy. "His wife Vicky and family were shocked to learn of his sudden and unexpected passing, and they will be working closely with the medical examiner to determine the cause. They would like to thank his fans for their continuous love and loyalty and ask that their privacy be respected at this time," the rep said. This post has been updated throughout include information about Chris Cornell's death. The headline has also been altered to reflect new information. If you or someone you know needs help, call 1-800-273-8255 for the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline. You can also text HELLO to 741-741 for free, 24-hour support from the Crisis Text Line. Outside of the U.S., please visit the International Association for Suicide Prevention for a database of resources. Share this slide: