The 23rd installment of the South African Music Awards (Samas) so far shows Kwesta is heading home on Saturday night a happy man. The who's who of the entertainment industry have gathered at the Sun City Super Bowl to celebrate the cremè deal cremè of the country's music industry. Kwesta bagged one of the most coveted awards of the night, Album of the Year for his "Dakar II". The hip-hop artist started the night on a high note, winning two highest airplay awards. The Ngud' hitmaker received nods from the South African Music Rights Organisation and the South African Music Performance Rights Association. He scooped the third award for Best Rap Album for "DaKAR II". He received his fourth award for Best Male. In his acceptance speech at the beginning of the night, Kwesta, real name Senzo Mfundo Vilakazi, said these awards were his first, and thanked his fans for the great year they gave him. Kwesta, who is nominated in five categories this year, is a favourite for the night. He was up for the following awards: Shine Kwesta, shine! Here are the night's winners: Best Newcomer of the Year -- Amanda Black, "Amazulu" Best Duo-Group of the Year -- Black Motion, "Ya Badimo" Best Female Artist of the Year -- Amanda Black, "Amazulu" Best Male Artist of the Year -- Kwesta, "DaKAR II" Best Album of the Year -- Amanda Black, "Amazulu" Best Maskandi Album -- Khuzani, "Inyoni yomthakathi" Classical Instrumental Album -- Charl du Pleassis Trio, "Baroqueswing Vol.II" Best Afro Pop Album -- Vusi Nova, "Vusi Nova" African Indigenous Gospel Album -- "Living In Christ Legends" Best Rock Album -- Albert Frost, "The Wakeup" Best Pop Album -- GoodLuck, "The Nature Within" Beste Kontemporere Musiek Album -- Joshua na die Reen, "Die Wereld Binne My" Best Rap Album -- Kwesta, "DaKAR II" Best Kwaito Album -- Dr Malinga, "Goodwill" Best Dance Album -- Black Motion, "Ya Badimo" Best Traditional Faith Music Album -- Sprit of Praise, "Spirit of Praise Vol.6" Highest Airplay of the Year -- Kwesta, Ngud' Best Jazz Album -- Nduduzo Makhathini, "Inner Dimensions"