This afternoon, I attended the monthly lunch meeting for the San Gabriel Valley Psychological Association. As luck would have it, I was seated beside a psychologist who mentioned that he works with many adults going through divorce. I asked him what his help entails. Unfortunately, all of his responses were as expected. The reason I say "unfortunately" is not because he shouldn't be assisting his clients with stress management, their coping mechanisms, anxiety, depression, and other such things, but because of his "help" with regard to the divorce itself. You see, he advised me that among other things, he helps his clients to assess whether or not their attorneys are zealously advocating for them effectively, in what he described as high conflict divorces. In the event the attorneys are not effectively zealously advocating for them, he assists them in finding an attorney more effective in that regard. You may be thinking to yourselves that this psychologist is doing his clients a great service in doing such things, so why am I referring to it as "unfortunate." My reasoning involves the education and training psychologists and other licensed mental health professionals receive, as well as their "job description." First, let's start with the definition of psychology. The American Psychological Association defines it as follows: According to the American Psychological Association, In his book, Mediating Family Law Disputes and Avoiding Adversarial Violence, Thomas Digrazia says the following: Because of how our brain works, the particular psychologist I mentioned and a great many others, including psychologists and other licensed mental health professionals, are harming people, regardless of whether or not it's intentional. Digrazia explains the disconnect as follows: You may be thinking that possibly the psychologist in question was unaware of the true nature of our legal system, which is "adversarial violence", as referenced in the title to Digrazia's book. If that's the case, it's due entirely to a willful lack of knowledge or information. If you're wondering how I know that, it's because I have been publishing articles on that subject since September 2008 and I began publishing articles when I was given a Psychology and Family Law column in the San Gabriel Valley Psychological Association's bimonthly newsletter, which exists to this day. That newsletter won the Award for Most Outstanding Newsletter from the California Psychological Association in 2010 and again in 2015. Moreover, my column was a named factor in its receiving that award in 2010. Over the years, most of my Psychology and Family Law Columns have been about misconceptions with regard to our legal system and the unfortunate consequences that typically ensue. One of my columns was actually titled Domestic Violence as a Tragic Toll of Divorce. All of my columns that have been published in that newsletter can be found in the Articles section of my website. Furthermore, in 2012, I co-presented with Linda Bortell, Psy.D. at the San Gabriel Valley Psychological Association's monthly lunch meeting. Our topic was Facilitating Rational Problem-Solving In An Otherwise Destructive Divorce Process. Lest you think that Digrazia and I are the only people who consider litigation and adversarial negotiation violent, the following is an excerpt from my article titled When Hiring a Lawyer or Mediator, Buyer Beware, that was published by Psychology Today earlier this month: Meanwhile, the empirical support from at least nine different studies reflects the following: Digrazia explains it as follows: Rather than grasping that well-trained facilitative lawyers and mediators can use their knowledge and skills to de-escalate conflict, build or rebuild trust and improve communication (among other things), the psychologist referenced in this article and a great many others claim to be helping people by encouraging them to enter into or remain in the adversarial process with lawyers who are more effective warriors. There are ways of changing the paradigm from adversarial to facilitative. One way I've found effective is providing people with information from which they can better understand cause and effect with regard to litigation and conflict. It never ceases to amaze me that people regularly contend that they can't enter into a facilitative approach because they're in conflict with each other, can't communicate with each other, and don't trust each other. Interestingly enough, lawyers and mediators well-trained in a facilitative approach have the knowledge and skills to de-escalate conflict, improve communication, and build or rebuild trust. In fact, that's why facilitative mediation is called conflict resolution. In addition, "empathy is the key to conflict resolution or management." As Digrazia mentioned in quoting Kenneth Cloke, "a non-violent approach to conflict resolution... [involves] promoting trust and empathy in relationships." In any event, the reason I said that all of the psychologist's responses were as expected is because the mediation and collaborative law communities are well-aware of the challenges they face in that regard. Actually, that's why I cover the topics I do in my Psychology and Family Law column in the San Gabriel Valley Psychological Association's newsletter. After all, the members of the group are predominantly psychologists and other mental health professionals. Apparently, however, many either don't bother reading my column, the information conveyed doesn't register with them, or they willfully ignore that information.