Analysis Venezuela is in the midst of a devastating crisis of political and economic turmoil. Those who cite it as an example of what "radical economic transformation" could look like in practical terms in South Africa have some difficult questions to answer. In recent weeks, Venezuela has been fraught with violent protests in response to rising food costs, unemployment and a fourth year of recession. WATCH: Why People Are Protesting In Venezuela "Venezuela remains mired in a deep economic crisis," the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said in its most recent World Economic Outlook. To date, at least 28 people including protesters and journalists have been killed since the unrest erupted, according to Venezuela's attorney general.  Despite having the largest proven oil reserves in the world, Venezuela is in a state of serious economic demise, which is widely accepted as a consequence of some of the measures taken by its socialist government.   And that's not all. Anti-government protesters are calling for President Nicolas Maduro to step down, accusing him of eroding democracy, and in response, he deployed the Venezuelan armed forces to take to the streets to "maintain order." Maduro stands accused of creating a dictatorship in which the government has repeatedly blocked any attempts to oust him from power by a referendum, and has also delayed local and state elections. In late March, the Venezuelan Supreme Court dissolved Parliament, transferring all legislative powers to itself -- a move that considered a coup attempt of sorts by opposition parties. The attempt was partially reversed three days later, after immediate and vocal rejection by the Global South community, but the removal of the final veneer of the government's claim to democratic legitimacy has energised massive street protests in Caracas, the capital city, and elsewhere around the country. The regime has met these protests with a show of force and vows to govern "forever." Similarly, President Jacob Zuma said in 2008 that the ANC would rule "until Jesus comes back."