Bank-card fraud increased in South Africa in 2016 -- with card jamming, card swopping and shoulder-surfing being some of the most common scams. Card fraud statistics released by the South African Banking Risk Information Centre (SABRIC) earlier this year indicated that credit-card fraud increased by 13 percent, while debit-card fraud increased by 3.1 percent between 2015 and 2016. The most affected provinces were Gauteng, the Western Cape and KwaZulu-Natal. Speaking to HuffPost SA, SABRIC's CEO, Kalyani Pillay, said the top three card scams in the country currently are phishing, card swopping and card-not-present (CNP) fraud.  Phishing Phishing is a cybercrime in which criminals, posing as legitimate institutions, will lure unsuspecting customers into providing sensitive personal information such as usernames, passwords and credit card details. They may do this via email or telephonically. Pillay warns customers to: Card swopping This is when criminals target ATM users. The perpetrators use various methods to distract or manipulate ATM users to gain access to their bank cards and PINs. They may do this by offering help while customers are doing their transactions, or they may change the language on the screen prior -- so an unsuspecting customer asks for help. They may also shoulder-surf -- which is standing next to someone and watching them as they enter their PIN at the ATM machine. Pillay's advice:  Card-not-present (CNP) fraud This is the unauthorised use of a payment card such as a credit card. CNP fraud can occur with transactions that are conducted online or over the phone. Although credit-card-payment processors take steps to minimise this type of fraud, if criminals have stolen details such as the billing address, account number, three-digit security code and card expiration date, the fraudulent transaction may appear legitimate. These details can be stolen electronically, without obtaining the physical card.  SABRIC's advice: "Don't choose the same PIN for your debit, cheque and credit card so that if you lose one, the others will still be safe. Also subscribe to your bank's SMS notification services as this will inform you of any transactional activity on your account," added Pillay. "Unfortunately, criminals will always exploit opportunities and vulnerabilities. They do see bank customers as being easy targets," said Pillay, and this why customers can never be too careful.   