Summary: The death count of Storm Ophelia - one of the most serious storms to hit the British Isles in decades - has risen to three as the Republic of Ireland is thrashed by destructive winds and heavy downpours.  Two men and a woman were killed in three separate incidents across the country, Gardaí police said.  While one man died this afternoon when a tree fell onto a car in Ravensdale, a woman in her 50s was killed in a similar incident when driving close to the village of Aglish in Waterford at around 11.40am.  Another man a man in his 30s died in a chainsaw accident in County Tipperary while trying to remove a tree downed by the high winds, officers confirmed.  The fatalities came as the Met Office warned that the conditions represent a “danger to life” in Ireland, with winds reaching up to 191km/hour at Fastnet Rock near County Cork earlier today.   While coastal defences were completely breached in some areas, armed forces were dispatched to bolster other flood defences.  Coastal defences completely breached at Salthill, Galway. The Atlantic now extends to the promenade. #Ophelia pic.twitter.com/qF9B47Ty3i #ophelia - just got caught in a sandstorm in Ballinspittle. Gale force winds in Kinsale#storm #StormOphelia pic.twitter.com/OvHkbl2xK3 Fallen trees and power lines in Killarney area Co Kerry this morning as result of #Ophelia Do not make unnecessary journeys. #staysafeIreland pic.twitter.com/g13mKiLrJ7 Police urged people to remain indoors for their own safety, as did Irish PM Leo Varadkar, who described the situation as a “national emergency”.  The tree-ripping winds in the country have been so powerful, roofs have been ripped off. Cork’s Turners Cross Stadium roof collapsed and the ceiling of a community school gym was filmed flying through the air. Turners cross stadium #Ophelia pic.twitter.com/5LrNG6JMso Dramatic footage of the roof being blown off #Douglas Community School's gym on southside of #Cork city #Ophelia #iestaff pic.twitter.com/0dSw5w1rTj @CorksRedFM Douglas Community Schools roof flying... #Opheila #cork pic.twitter.com/8yO7XeXCLf Around 360,000 people across Ireland have been left without power, with ESB Networks warning that it could be up to 10 days before some customers have electricity again.  A further 18,000 people in Northern Ireland and thousands of homes in Wales have also been hit by power cuts, with amber weather warnings in place in the two countries and parts of Scotland until 11pm.   As the storm moved towards Wales and Scotland, police warned locals not to head to the coast to take selfies, urging them to think of “those who would be called to rescue you”.  Tonight, we'll see ex-Hurricane #Ophelia spread across #Scotland, bringing further wet and #windy weather for many pic.twitter.com/ikTDfVcSEV Schools in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland were closed today and will remain closed again tomorrow “in the interests of child safety”.  Some schools in Wales also decided to send children home due to the adverse weather conditions.  All schools are to remain closed tomorrow Tuesday October 17th. The storm has also caused wide-spread travel disruption across the UK.  Cork Airport told passengers that there will be no more departures today and urged customers to check with airlines regarding what flights, if any, will return to airport tonight. Belfast International Airport said the storm was having an impact, with both Ryanair and easyJet cancelling flights. The airport is expecting more cancellations. Anyone due to travel has been advised to contact their airline. Meanwhile, a number of flights to UK airports were diverted after “smoke smells” were reported on board in incidents thought to be linked to the storm.  Four EasyJet flights flying in the west of the UK today reported the scent of smoke in the cockpit, with a spokesperson for the carrier saying it was believed to be linked to “atmospheric circumstances due to storm Ophelia”.  Storm Ophelia is causing disruption today at certain airports. Please check flight tracker for updates  https://t.co/DKbNxcGyM3 pic.twitter.com/257A526MAS “Two flights returned shortly after take-off and two flights requested an expedited landing as a precaution only,” they told the Press Association.  “The safety and welfare of our passengers and crew is easyJet’s highest priority. We would like to apologise for any inconvenience experienced by the diversions.” There were also reports of people across the UK seeing a “red Sun” as Ophelia dragged Ophelia dragged tropical air and dust over from the Sahara.  The sky in #London has turned into a CRAZY(!) reddish brown colour. It feels incredibly weird...and getting more weird by the minute. So many people are looking at the sky and taking photos. #Ophelia #SaharanDust #FireParticles #RedSun pic.twitter.com/nMQ2e7MdTb Meanwhile in Wales, sea foam whipped up by intense storm winds made it appear as if it had been snowing in October. 