English Pointer Nora was abused in her old life -- so much so that she is now often afraid of people.

But when Elizabeth Spence took her in from a shelter, the dog formed an unlikely bond with Spence's 11-month-old bub Archie. And the results are beautiful.   Three's Company 😴😴😴#whpmultiply . We've been so busy this summer season, Archie has been grabbing most of his naps on the go. We've taken a reprieve for the afternoon and I'm pretty sure Archie and Nora (and Gwendolyn Racoon!) are thrilled for the opportunity to reconnect ❤️ #nappingwithnora #rescuedog #adoptdontshop A post shared by Elizabeth Spence (@wellettas) on Jul 10, 2017 at 1:45pm PDT  With Wellington it was IKEA bag clips. They were like an additional appendage to him. He had one in his hands at all times and took them with him EVERYWHERE he went, using his imagination to turn them into spaceships, weaponry, a chew toy, or pretty much anything his incredible mind could think of. Heaven forbid you try to remove one from his clutches to seal a bag or something! 😳. With Loretta it was bandages. No outfit was ever complete until she covered herself from head to toe with a variety of colourful bandages. They were the ULTIMATE accessory in her opinion and there was no way you could you talk her into trying a necklace or something else to dress up her ensemble instead. With Archie it's socks. Multiple pairs of socks. Every morning he roots through his brother and sister's dressers searching for the perfect ones, then he proceeds to SCREAM until one of us helps him put them on his little feet. Such beautiful, colourful and creative kids with beautiful, colourful and creative minds. My husband and I support and encourage their courageous passions 100% and we always will! 😍 #whpstandout . #nappingwithnora #rescuedog #adoptdontshop A post shared by Elizabeth Spence (@wellettas) on Jun 18, 2017 at 6:33am PDT  Archie and crew took an EPIC three hour nap yesterday, allowing me to catch up on an epic mountain of laundry. I was thrilled to finally get that laundry tackled, but next time this mama is leaving it behind and jumping into bed with these guys to experience the sweet escape of sleep once again! A girl can dream, right? 😜 #whpgetaway #nappingwithnora #rescuedog #adoptdontshop A post shared by Elizabeth Spence (@wellettas) on Jun 5, 2017 at 6:56am PDT Spence told The Dodo that the relationship was only possible because of how "laid-back" Archie is. "If Archie is having a bath, Nora is lying on the bath mat waiting for him to get out," Spence said. "If I'm nursing him she wants up on my lap, too. If he's going through my cupboards throwing all the dishes on the floor, she'll be there cheering him on." Sometimes, Nora feels comfortable enough to go and play with one of Spence's five other foster pets, or two other children. 'Mama's summer reading camp' made SO much more enjoyable with the Kingdom of You books from @lostmy.name. I mean, what's not to enjoy about a book personalized around your name and a few of your favourite things? Such a great way to instill a love of books in the kiddos. Love it! #kingdomofyou . #rescuedog #adoptdontshop A post shared by Elizabeth Spence (@wellettas) on Jul 2, 2017 at 8:04am PDT  Choose love ❤ #whpdreambig . #rescuecadog #rescuecat #adoptdontshop . Fujifilm XT1 A post shared by Elizabeth Spence (@wellettas) on May 6, 2017 at 7:00am PDT  You can follow Spence, from Canada, on Instagram here.   