Sexual abuse and the rape of women stand as one of South Africa's greatest pandemics. The number of reported rape cases in 2015/16 stands at a staggering 42,596 according to Africa check. These figures deeply undermine the real-time figures of sexual abuse that do not make it to the police station. It is no surprise that Twitter users were up in arms when well-known hip-hop Dj Dimplez dropped the artwork of his newest single, 'What A Night", featuring Tellaman and Kwesta. The artwork shows a young woman being carried out by Dj Dimplez after a night out in the club. The artwork was received with mixed reviews as many felt the artwork supported rape culture. This is really awful, and I can't even pretend to be shocked that there are so many people on here trying to tell us it isn't. pic.twitter.com/GXguEjmGSc Why can't "what a night" mean a great night with the boys and not getting girls helplessly drunk in a violent country like SA? This sucks. pic.twitter.com/Th5khqQx7O While some saw no problem with the artwork, others felt the lack of sensitivity in creating the work speaks to a greater normalisation of rape and sexual abuse in South Africa. How exactly do they get girls helplessly drunk? Are they forced?Them girls also need to take responsibility for their drunkenness...  I really wanna act shocked at the fact that rape culture is very much normalized in South Africa. just saw that dimples poster. 😒 The outrage around the artwork comes off yet another troubling year of female kidnappings and/or the killing of women at the hands of their loved ones. The constant threat to women's safety has been a large discussion point on social media. READ MORE: Karabo Mokoena Murder Accused Denied Bail After a great deal of rigorous debate on social media platforms, Dj Dimplez has since issued a statement to his fans, apologising for his ethical oversight. I would like to apologize pic.twitter.com/m5Artes8nD  Although the apology has been issued and fans are deeply appreciative of his speedy response, the reaction and debate around the depiction still expose a blind spot in how some South Africans may understand consent and in turn the perpetuation of rape culture. Well done DJ Dimplez for taking responsibility. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE : 5 Shocking Facts About Intimate Partner Violence In South Africa