South Africa has been identified by World Health Organization (WHO) as one of nine countries that have been warned of a possible spread of 'the plague'. 

Madagascar, which has travel and trade ties to South Africa, has experienced a recent outbreak of the disease... the same which struck terror in the hearts of medieval Europeans and is believed to have wiped out close to 60% of that continent's population centuries ago.  Read: SA identified by World Health Organization as priority country for plague Plague is a serious disease with a death rate, if left untreated, of 30 to 100 percent within 72 hours, depending on the type of plague a patient has contracted. It has reportedly claimed 124 lives in Madagascar since 1 August 2017, with about 1,200 more suspected, probable or confirmed cases recorded so far.  


                                                                


    
       Here's what you need to know about the plague: 1. It's an infectious disease Plague is an infectious disease, caused by the bacterium Yersina pestis, found in some small mammals and transmitted by their fleas. It can be contracted if a person is bitten by infected fleas, in which case it develops as bubonic plague. However, pneumonic plague can be transmitted much more easily through the lungs. 2. Two major types of plague There are two types of plagues most common in human infections: bubonic and pneumonic plague. The bubonic type, transmitted by flea bites, travels through the lymphatic system to the lymph nodes, where it replicates itself. The dark swellings, or "buboes", at lymph-node sites in the neck, armpits and groin, are what gives this form of plague its name Pneumonic plague, as the name suggests, attacks via the lungs, transmitted in body fluids when infected patients cough or sneeze. While bubonic plague has a natural survival rate of 40-70 percent when left untreated, pneumonic plague is invariably fatal without the intervention of modern medicine. 3. Symptoms People who contract the disease may experience sudden fevers, head- and body aches, nausea and vomiting. Painful and inflamed lymph nodes may also appear in bubonic plague. Those who have recently visited plague-risk areas, such as Madagascar, who begin to experience any of these symptoms should seek professional medical advice as soon as possible. 3. Pneumonic vs bubonic plague Bubonic plague is not easily transmitted between people, but pneumonic plague can be spread rapidly through coughing and sneezing. Modern antibiotics cure plague efficiently, but they need to be introduced as early as possible, as plague can develop into a serious life-threatening condition rapidly. 4. Treatment Plague is treated with antibiotics, and recovery is common if treatment starts early. In areas where there is a plague outbreak, people with symptoms should go to a health centre immediately for evaluation and treatment. Patients with pneumonic plague must be isolated and treated by trained medical staff wearing personal protective equipment. Scary as the threat of plague may sound, given its morbid and devastating spread through Europe long ago, there may not really be much to worry about. 

Speaking to TimesLive, Professor Lucille Blumberg -- consultant at the National Institute for Communicable Diseases -- said the disease hasn't spread across borders in three months. Furthermore, Blumberg noted, modern medicine, including treatment through antibiotics, is on our side and it is in fact Malaria that should worry us a lot more.   These are some additional facts about 'the plague' you may be interested in.  Some information in this article appeared in an article published by Health24.  