The ladies of Twitter never fail to brighten our days with their brilliant ― but succinct ― wisdom. Each week, HuffPost Women rounds up hilarious 140-character musings. For this week’s great tweets from women, scroll through the list below. Then visit our Funniest Tweets From Women page for our past collections. Sign up for our Funniest Tweets Of The Week newsletter here. Once again the gynecology nurse does not appreciate when I say “giving ya the ol’ razzle dazzle” while putting my feet in the stirrups Just sitting around being sacred today, as women do. If your bra consistently matches your underwear first of all are you some kind of witch? telling me to stop posting political things is the equivalent of telling me to smile more, thank you! *smiles so hard all my teeth shatter* Them: You need to listen to your body more.Body: You're old. And you want pizza. doctor: eating popeyes everyday will kill youme: pic.twitter.com/tp0EeuMwjV *flosses for the first time in 6 months* that should fool the dentist today can you imagine losing and having to talk about it after? like I lose all the time and I just shut up and pretend I didn't lose If I see a sexy Handmaids Tale costume next week I will have an actual tantrum Inventing a delivery app that brings your delivery person on time. Finds them at their restaurant, tells them to stop chatting, pokes them. I'm a lady on the streets but a silly fake ghost in the sheets 'Just In Timber Lake' sounds like the slogan for a campground holding its annual swingers retreat When the Cable Guy gets to your house at 4:58pm in your "12pm-5pm" window... pic.twitter.com/CkZrDHpfUy If you’ve never pulled your pants up before your underwear then we have nothing in common. Today I went into my purse to pay my therapist and a bag of shredded cheese fell out I like to plan my outfit for dropping the kids off at school.In fact, I often choose it the night before.They're called "pajamas". One *effective* way to fight the patriarchy is to call men named Brian “Bree-anne” Ah, fall. Foliage, pumpkin spice and being late to work every day because you spent 7 minutes figuring out if the tights are black or navy. I've wasted so much of my precious life trying to locate the remote. bought my dog a halloween costume so he peed on the store floor fair enough my friend but you’re still gonna be a cute fucking shark