The deadliest mass shooting in modern American history took place on Sunday, when a gunman opened fire at the Route 91 Harvest Festival in Las Vegas. At least 59 people were killed and over 500 wounded. The suspect, Stephen Paddock, was later found dead in his hotel room. This is what we know about the victims whose names have been released. Lisa Romero was a secretary at Miyamura High School in Gallup, New Mexico. Romero’s cousin Ashley Romero told HuffPost that Lisa was a “happy-go-lucky person.” “She loved her kids and husband. And for this to happen so senselessly. It’s a heartbreaking day for us all,” she said.  Quinton Robbins was a student at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, and worked in city government in his hometown of Henderson, Nevada. Robbins’ friend Tyce Jones described him as a “pay-it-forward kinda guy” to Newsweek. In a Facebook post, his aunt Kilee Wells Sanders called him “the most kind and loving soul.” “Everyone who met him loved him,” she wrote. “His contagious laugh and smile. He was truly an amazing person. He will be missed by so many, he is loved by so many.” Registered nurse Sonny Melton of Paris, Tennessee, died while protecting his wife, Dr. Heather Gulish Melton. “He saved my life,” Melton told USA Today. “He grabbed me from behind and started running when I felt him get shot in the back.” McIldoon was from Maple Ridge, British Columbia. His parents, Al and Angela McIldoon, confirmed their son’s death to CBC. They told the outlet that he was attending the music festival with his girlfriend and was expected to return on Monday night.  Jessica Klymchuk lived in Valleyview, Alberta, and was a single mother of four. She was visiting Las Vegas with her fiancé when she was killed, according to CityNews Edmonton.  Anchorage native Adrian Murfitt had just finished a summer of commercial fishing in Chignik, Alaska, his mother, Avonna Murfitt, told Alaska Dispatch News. She told the publication her son was shot in the neck and “apparently, a fireman and a doctor both came over and did CPR on him, but he didn’t make it.”  Known as “Charles” or “Chucky,” Las Vegas police officer Charleston Hartfield was also a military veteran who coached youth football. A friend described him as “seriously one of the nicest guys ever” and “the most true-blue American guy I’ve ever met” to the Las Vegas Review-Journal. Friends identify the Las Vegas police officer killed in Sunday's massacre: Charleston Hartfield, 34 https://t.co/CWu6qqTe9Q pic.twitter.com/dnHFnhQer0 Rachel Parker was a police records technician and had worked with the Manhattan Beach Police Department for 10 years. Manhattan Beach police records tech Rachel Parker confirmed killed in Las Vegas mass shooting. https://t.co/uwmBMKRUsE pic.twitter.com/Y7kp130A1Q Special education teacher Sandy Casey was identified as one of the victims by Manhattan Beach Unified School District in Southern California. Christopher Willemse, Casey’s fiancé, gave her a touching tribute on his Facebook page.  “The love and support that she and I have received during these trying times just shows how important this wonderful woman truly was,” Willemse wrote. “She lived life to the fullest and made me the happiest man in the world. Im so grateful for the kind words and gestures, it means the world to me, especially for her.”  Casey taught special education at the school for the last nine years. “She’s absolutely loved by students and colleagues alike and will be remembered for her sense of humor, her passion for her work, her devotion to her students, her commitment to continue her own learning and taking on whatever new projects came her way,” district superintendent Mike Matthews said in a statement obtained by Los Angeles station KABC. Angie Gomez, who graduated from California’s Riverside Polytechnic High School in 2015, has been identified by her former school’s PTSA as one of the victims. “Please join me in lifting her and her family up in prayer. She will always be loved and endeared by our Poly Family,” a post on the school’s Facebook page read. Denise Burditus of Martinsburg, West Virginia, was attending the concert with her husband, Tony, when she was fatally shot. Her husband wrote on Facebook that his wife died in his arms. “It saddens me to say that I lost my wife of 32 years, a mother of two, soon to be grandmother of five this evening in the Las Vegas shooting,” read the post, which was obtained by the West Virginia MetroNews. Denise had shared a number of photos of her and her husband enjoying the three-day Route 91 Harvest Music Festival in Las Vegas, including in the hours before the shooting.  #Rte91Festival #ThreeDayNeonSleepover final day @Route91Harvest pic.twitter.com/sY5ZV4fpXg Denise Chambers, who said she was friends with Burditus and her husband throughout high school in Hedgesville, West Virginia, described the couple to HuffPost as “high school sweethearts” who were “very much in love.” “They were very active and full of life. Traveled around the country, took cruises, lived in different states and just recently moved back home to the Martinsburg West Virginia area,” Chambers wrote. “They took off to Vegas for the Music Festival when this horrific incident took place.” Jenny Parks, a mother of two and kindergarten teacher at Anaverde Hills School in Palmdale, California, was fatally shot attending the festival with her husband, Bobby. The couple were high school sweethearts, Bobby’s uncle, Steven McCarthy, told HuffPost. Jenny had just finished a master’s program to complete her teaching credentials in May and was planning a party for Bobby’s 40th birthday next week. “Everybody loved her,” McCarthy told HuffPost. “Whenever she came to a family function, she brightened up the room.”  Bobby was also shot and is currently awaiting surgery. There are two separate GoFundMe pages set up for the family, one of which has raised over $19,000 so far. Bobby’s former co-worker, Jessica Maddin, set up a different GoFundMe account to help raise donations for funeral and medical expenses for the family.   Maddin runs a nonprofit organization called Jessica’s Hope Project that sends fitness care packages to military members. And even though she hasn’t been particularly close to Bobby over the years, she said, he often came out to events to support the cause. “He is very friendly, very outgoing, and always very supportive of the troops,” Maddin told HuffPost. Susan Smith, 53, an office manager for Vista Fundamental Elementary School in Simi Valley, was killed during the shooting. Jake Finch, a spokesperson for the the school district, told the Los Angeles Times that Smith worked for Simi Valley Unified School District for 16 years. “Everyone who came through those doors she knew. She knew the children, she knew the staff, she knew the parents,” Finch told the LA Times.  Smith was married with children, according to the paper. Dana Gardner, a mother for three, was fatally shot at the concert while attending with her daughter Kayla, who was injured during the shooting, ABC 7 reports. Kayla confirmed the news on her Facebook page. “We are devastated and still in shock trying to comprehend what happened last night,” Kayla Gardner wrote. “My family and I appreciate the outpouring of love and support and ask for prayers at this time.”  Dana Gardner was a deputy reporter for the San Bernardino County Assessor/Recorder/County Clerk’s office and described as a dedicated public servant, the San Bernardino Sun reports. Rhonda LeRocque, a resident of Tewksbury, Massachusetts, was attending the concert with her husband, 6-year-old daughter and father-in-law, according to her family. She was married to her husband, Jason, for 20 years, according to Boston 25 News. “My sister didn’t do anything. She never hurt people,” LeRocque’s sister, Jennifer Zeleneski, told the Boston Herald. “She was the [kindest] person that I know. Her family is the picture perfect family, what you would aspire to be.” Relatives told Boston 25 LeRocque was “as close to perfection as you can get” and described her as a big country music fan. Family and friends remember Tewksbury mom killed during Las Vegas mass shooting. "She was as close to perfection as possible" @boston25 pic.twitter.com/PHPJqlp5S3 Thomas Day Jr., who worked as a home builder and lived in Riverside, California, was at the Route 91 festival with his four adult children, according to the Los Angeles Times. His father, Thomas Day Sr., told the outlet that his son “was the best dad” and said his family was grieving the loss. “His kids are with me right now,” Day said. “They’re crushed.” Christopher Roybal, 28, a military veteran from Corona, California, who had served in Afghanistan, was at the concert celebrating an early birthday with his mother when the two were separated, ABC 7 reports.  “Today is the saddest day of my life,” Roybal’s mother, Debby Allen, posted on Facebook. “My son Christopher Roybal was murdered last night in Las Vegas. My heart is broken in a billion pieces. For anyone who knew the relationship we shared, you then know we were best friends. I will forever miss my Munchkin.”  Business owner John Phippen, 56, was born in New York but moved to Santa Clarita, California, and opened JP Specialities, a home remodeling company.  Phippen was hit by a bullet in the lower back while dancing with his son, Travis, who later helped him get to Sunrise Hospital & Medical Center, the Los Angeles Times reported. “He was my best friend,” Travis told the LA Times. “He never did anything wrong to anybody. He was always kind and gentle. He was the biggest teddy bear I knew.” Phippen’s neighbor, Leah Nagyivanyi, set up a GoFundMe page to help support his children. “This is a man who loved his family and his friends as if they were family. It is unfortunate to say he left alot behind,” Nagyivanyi wrote on the fundraising site. “John has five children and one grandson of which he absolutely adored. His youngest daughter is only 14 and who lost her Mom only 3 short years ago.” Neysa Tonks was a mother of three boys and worked at Technologent, a technology company based in Irvine, California. Her employer confirmed her death and called Tonks “a great mother, colleague and friend” who “brought so much joy, fun and laughter” to the company. A GoFundMe page set up in her honor featured dozens of memories from family and friends, who remembered Tonks as a woman with “such a kind heart” and a zest for life that “was infectious.” Bailey Schweitzer, a 20-year-old from Bakersfield, California, was was identified by her father, Bakersfield Speedway owner Scott Schweitzer. Family members told 23ABC that Bailey’s parents left for Las Vegas right after the shooting. Infinity Communications and Consulting, where Bailey worked as receptionist, released a statement Monday and announced a candlelight vigil for Bailey, The Washington Post reports. “If you have ever called or visited our office, she was the perky one that helped direct you to the staff member you needed,” Infinity chief executive Fred Brakeman said in the statement. Disneyland employee Carrie Barnette, 34, was killed in the shooting on Sunday night. Variety reports that Disney CEO Bob Iger released a statement mourning her passing. “Our hearts go out to everyone impacted by the tragic events in Las Vegas – the victims of violence, the witnesses, and the friends and families mourning loved ones,” the statment reads. “We are especially heartbroken over the loss of one of our own to this unconscionable and senseless act. Carrie Barnette had been a member of the Disney California Adventure culinary team for ten years and was beloved by her friends and colleagues. Our thoughts are with her family, along with our support, during this incredibly difficult time. Another valued Disney cast member, Jessica Milam, was also seriously injured and we are praying for her recovery.” Barnette’s cousin, Janice Chambers, told Arizona Central that the family waited through the night to get information about her wellbeing. A friend who attended the festival with Barnette broke the news. “Always smiling happy and upbeat,” Chambers told Arizona Central. “She spent many recent years caring for my aunt and uncle until they passed. She was definitely grandpa’s girl. She told me he loved hummingbirds and every time she saw one she’d say ‘Grandpa’s here.’” Kurt Von Tillow, from the small town of Cameron Park, California, was killed at the festival and two of his family members were wounded in the attack, according to KCRA. Mark Baca, a friend of Tillow, said he would always remember the man “for his big belly laughs and smiles and tremendous friendship.” Friends and family gathered Monday at a local country club to remember Tillow. “Kurt was a great friend, a great husband to Mary Jo,” Baca wrote on Facebook. “Everyone was his friend. From [now] on every time I see a Bud Light how can I not think of Kurt.” San Diego attorney Jennifer Topaz Irvine, 42, Irvine dedicated her career to family law and opened up her own firm to work more “directly with her clients,” according to her firm’s website. The 42-year-old lawyer also wrote on her site that she enjoyed snowboarding and hot yoga, and had a black belt in tae kwan do. CBS News 8 correspondent Kyle Kraska, a close friend of the Irvine, posted a touching tribute to the lawyer on his Facebook page. “My heart is broken,” Kraska wrote. “Jennifer Irvine, you are a shining light that will not be extinguished by a gutless coward with a gun. You brought so much joy to others, including me. You left this world singing & dancing, but far too soon. I will never forget you or any of the happy moments we shared. You made this world a better place simply by your presence. So long, my dear friend.” Jack Beaton of Bakersfield, California, was killed after he used his body to shield his wife, Laura, from gunfire. Family members posted to social media to mourn Beaton and his selfless act, calling him “a true hero.” Jerry Cook, Beaton’s father-in-law, described him to Bakersfield Now as a “kid at heart.” Cook recounted the story of the shooting as his daughter told it to him. “He put Laurie on the ground and covered her with his body and he got shot I don’t know how many times,” Cook told Bakersfield Now. “Laurie was saying he was bleeding through the mouth, bleeding profusely, she knew he was dying. He told her he loved her. Laurie could tell he was slipping. She told him she loved him and she would see him in heaven.” Beaton’s son, Jake, posted old family photos to his Facebook in an emotional tribute to his father. “Lost my best friend,” Jake wrote. “I love you so much more then you could ever imagine. Please watch over our family. You will forever be remembered as our hero.” Victor Link, 52, was a loan processor living in San Clemente, California. Link’s nephew Vincent, who confirmed the death to KBAK, said his uncle loved music and frequently traveled to concerts with his fiancée Lynn Gonzales. Gonzales was treated at a hospital for shock, but Vincent was unsure if anyone else with Link had been hurt. Victor Link left behind a son, Christian Link, 23, who wrote a heart-wrenching tribute to his father on Facebook. “I love you so much Dad,” Christian wrote. “Thank you so much for adopting me. Thank you so much for being the best dad ... I just want to tell you how much I love you and I’m going to do all the things that we talked about but this time I’m actually going to do it! I love you Dad I’m so sorry you had to go.” This is a developing story. Check back for updates. CORRECTION: This piece previously indicated that Nick Robone was fatally wounded. UNLV has issued a statement saying he underwent surgery to remove the bullet from his chest and “is expected to make a full recovery.” Share this slide: